1.  Home
2.  Supervision & Regulation
3.  Supervision and Regulation Letters
4.  2008

Supervision and Regulation Letters

Share

-   
-   
-   
-   

PDF RSS

By topic

SR 08-8 / CA 08-11:

Compliance Risk Management Programs and Oversight at Large Banking
Organizations with Complex Compliance Profiles

BOARD OF GOVERNORS
OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20551

DIVISION OF BANKING
SUPERVISION AND REGULATION

DIVISION OF CONSUMER
AND COMMUNITY AFFAIRS

SR 08-8 / CA 08-11
October 16, 2008
Revised October 1, 2025

On October 1, 2025:  This letter was revised to remove references to
reputational risk.

Clarification on the Responsibilities of the Board of Directors
February 26, 2021:  As described in SR letter 21-4 / CA letter 21-2,
"Inactive or Revised SR Letters Related to Federal Reserve Expectations
for Boards of Directors," this SR letter was revised as of
February 26, 2021 to better reflect the Federal Reserve's guidance for
boards of directors in SR letter 21-3 / CA letter 21-1, "Supervisory
Guidance on Board of Directors' Effectiveness," and SR letter 16-11,
"Supervisory Guidance for Assessing Risk Management at Supervised
Institutions with Total Consolidated Assets Less than $100 Billion." No
other material changes were made to this letter. 

TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF SUPERVISION AND APPROPRIATE SUPERVISORY AND
EXAMINATION STAFF AT EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK AND CERTAIN ORGANIZATIONS
SUPERVISED BY THE FEDERAL RESERVE

SUBJECT:

Compliance Risk Management Programs and Oversight at Large Banking
Organizations with Complex Compliance Profiles

In recent years, banking organizations have greatly expanded the scope,
complexity, and global nature of their business activities. At the same
time, compliance requirements associated with these activities have
become more complex. As a result, organizations have confronted
significant risk management and corporate governance challenges,
particularly with respect to compliance risks that transcend business
lines, legal entities, and jurisdictions of operation.¹ To address these
challenges, many banking organizations have implemented or enhanced
firmwide compliance risk management programs and program oversight.

While the guiding principles of sound risk management are the same for
compliance as for other types of risk, the management and oversight of
compliance risk presents certain challenges. For example, quantitative
limits reflecting the firm's risk appetite can be established for market
and credit risks, allocated to the various business lines within the
organization, and monitored by units independent of the business
line. Compliance risk does not lend itself to similar processes for
establishing and allocating overall risk tolerance, in part because
organizations must comply with applicable rules and
standards. Additionally, existing compliance risk metrics are often less
meaningful in terms of aggregation and trend analysis as compared with
more traditional market and credit risk metrics. These distinguishing
characteristics of compliance risk underscore the need for a firmwide
approach to compliance risk management and oversight for large, complex
organizations. A firmwide compliance function that plays a key role in
managing and overseeing compliance risk while promoting a strong culture
of compliance across the organization is particularly important for
large, complex organizations that have a number of separate business
lines and legal entities that must comply with a wide range of
applicable rules and standards. 

The Federal Reserve has, primarily through the examination process,
emphasized the need for effective firmwide compliance risk management
and oversight at large, complex banking organizations. While firmwide
compliance risk management programs and oversight at the largest
supervised banking organizations have generally improved, the level of
progress at individual banking organizations varies and opportunity for
improvement remains. The Federal Reserve strongly encourages large
banking organizations with complex compliance profiles to ensure that
the necessary resources are dedicated to fully implementing effective
firmwide compliance risk management programs and oversight in a timely
manner.²

The Federal Reserve's expectations for all supervised banking
organizations are in line with the principles outlined in a paper issued
in April 2005 by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, entitled
Compliance and the compliance function in banks (Basel compliance
paper). The principles in the Basel compliance paper have become widely
recognized as global sound practices for compliance risk management and
oversight. Nevertheless, some banking organizations have sought
clarification as to the Federal Reserve's views regarding certain
compliance risk management and oversight matters.  This SR/CA letter
clarifies Federal Reserve views applicable to large banking
organizations with complex compliance profiles in the following areas
where guidance has been requested:

I.  Organizations that should implement a firmwide approach to
    compliance risk management and oversight;

II. Independence of compliance staff;

III. Compliance monitoring and testing; and

IV. Responsibilities of boards of directors and senior management
    regarding compliance risk management and oversight.

I.   Firmwide Compliance Risk Management and Oversight

Overview

Organizations supervised by the Federal Reserve, regardless of size and
complexity, should have effective compliance risk management programs
that are appropriately tailored to the organizations' risk profiles.³
The manner in which the program is implemented and the type of oversight
needed for that program can vary considerably depending upon the scope
and complexity of the organization's activities, the geographic reach of
the organization, and other inherent risk factors. Larger, more complex
banking organizations tend to conduct a wide range of business
activities that are subject to complex compliance requirements that
frequently transcend business lines and legal entities and, accordingly,
present risk management and corporate governance
challenges. Consequently, these organizations typically require a
firmwide approach to compliance risk management and oversight that
includes a corporate compliance function. In contrast, smaller,
less-complex banking organizations are not generally confronted with the
types of compliance risks and challenges that require a comprehensive
firmwide approach to effectively manage and oversee compliance risk.
 The following discussion, therefore, is not directed at smaller,
less-complex banking organizations.

Firmwide compliance risk management refers to the processes established
to manage compliance risk across an entire organization, both within and
across business lines, support units, legal entities, and jurisdictions
of operation. This approach ensures that compliance risk management is
conducted in a context broader than would take place solely within
individual business lines or legal entities. The need for a firmwide
approach to compliance risk management at larger, more complex banking
organizations is well demonstrated in areas such as anti-money
laundering, privacy, affiliate transactions, conflicts of interest, and
fair lending, where legal and regulatory requirements may apply to
multiple business lines or legal entities within the banking
organization. Certain other compliance risks may also warrant a firmwide
risk management approach to address similar rules and standards that
apply to the organization's operations across different
jurisdictions. In all such instances, compliance risk management
benefits from an aggregate view of the organization's compliance risk
exposure and an integrated approach to managing those risks.

The processes established for managing compliance risk on a firmwide
basis should be formalized in a compliance program that establishes the
framework for identifying, assessing, controlling, measuring,
monitoring, and reporting compliance risks across the organization, and
for providing compliance training throughout the organization. A banking
organization's compliance risk management program should be documented
in the form of compliance policies and procedures and compliance risk
management standards.⁴

Firmwide compliance oversight refers to the processes established to
oversee compliance risk management across the entire organization, both
within and across business lines, legal entities, and jurisdictions of
operation.   In larger, more complex banking organizations, a key
component of firmwide compliance oversight is a corporate compliance
function that has day-to-day responsibility for overseeing and
supporting the implementation of the organization's firmwide compliance
risk management program, and that plays a key role in controlling
compliance risks that transcend business lines, legal entities, and
jurisdictions of operation.  Board oversight of such functions are often
carried out by the board's Risk Committee or a committee or subcommittee
primarily dedicated to oversight of compliance.

Federal Reserve Supervisory Policies

Large Banking Organizations with Complex Compliance Profiles.  Although
balance sheet size is not the defining indication of a banking
organization's compliance risk management needs, experience has
demonstrated that banking organizations with $50 billion or more in
consolidated total assets typically have multiple legal entities that
pose the type of compliance risks and challenges that call for a
comprehensive firmwide approach to appropriately control compliance risk
and provide effective oversight. Accordingly, such organizations should
generally implement firmwide compliance risk management programs and
have a corporate compliance function. 

Compliance programs at such organizations should include more robust
processes for identifying, assessing, controlling, measuring,
monitoring, and reporting compliance risk, and for providing compliance
training throughout the organization in order to appropriately control
the heightened level and complexity of compliance risk. The corporate
compliance function should play a key role in overseeing and supporting
the implementation of the compliance risk management program, and in
controlling compliance risks that transcend business lines, legal
entities, and jurisdictions of operation.⁵

Large Banking Organizations with Less-Complex Compliance Profiles.  In
some instances, banking organizations that meet the $50 billion asset
threshold may have few legal entities, be less complex in nature, and
may engage in only a very limited range of business activities. Such
organizations may be able to effectively manage and oversee compliance
risk without implementing a comprehensive firmwide
approach. Alternatively, these organizations may choose to implement a
firmwide approach whose scope is highly risk-focused on particular
compliance risks that exist throughout the organization. In lieu of
relying on a corporate compliance function to play a key role in
providing day-to-day oversight of the compliance program, these
organizations may rely on executive and management committees that are
actively involved in providing ongoing corporate oversight of the
compliance risk management program. An organization that adopts this
approach, however, should ensure that its compliance program
incorporates controls that effectively addresscompliance risks that
transcend business lines, legal entities, and jurisdictions of
operation; that appropriate firmwide standards are established for the
business lines to follow in managing compliance risk and reporting on
key compliance matters; and that the organization is appropriately
overseeing the implementation of its compliance risk management
program. 

Foreign Banking Organizations. Each foreign banking organization
supervised by the Federal Reserve should implement a compliance program
that is appropriately tailored to the scope, complexity, and risk
profile of the organization's U.S. operations. The program should be
reasonably designed to ensure that the organization's U.S. operations
comply with applicable U.S. rules and standards, and should establish
effective controls over compliance risks that transcend business lines
or legal entities. Foreign banking organizations with large, complex
U.S. operations should implement compliance programs for these
operations that have more robust processes for identifying, assessing,
controlling, measuring, monitoring, and reporting compliance risk, and
for providing compliance training, than would be appropriate for foreign
banking organizations with smaller, less-complex U.S. operations.⁶

With respect to oversight, foreign banking organizations should provide
effective oversight of compliance risks within their U.S. operations,
including risks that transcend business lines or legal entities. A
foreign banking organization, however, has flexibility in organizing its
oversight structure. Compliance oversight of U.S. activities may be
conducted in a manner that is consistent with the foreign banking
organization's broader compliance risk management
framework. Alternatively, a separate function may be established
specifically to provide compliance oversight of the organization's U.S.
operations. Regardless of the oversight structure utilized by a foreign
banking organization, its established oversight mechanisms, governing
policies and procedures, and supporting infrastructure for its U.S.
operations should be sufficiently transparent for the Federal Reserve to
assess their adequacy. 

II.  Independence of Compliance Staff

Federal Reserve supervisory findings at large, complex banking
organizations consistently reinforce the need for compliance staff to be
appropriately independent of the business lines for which they have
compliance responsibilities. Compliance independence facilitates
objectivity and avoids inherent conflicts of interest that may hinder
the effective implementation of a compliance program. The Federal
Reserve has observed compliance independence to be an area in which
there is considerable variation in practices, some of which do not
consistently meet supervisory standards. A particular challenge for many
organizations is attaining an appropriate level of independence with
respect to compliance staff operating within the business lines.

The Federal Reserve does not prescribe a particular organizational
structure for the compliance function. Large banking organizations with
complex compliance profiles are encouraged, however, to avoid inherent
conflicts of interest by ensuring that accountability exists between the
corporate compliance function and compliance staff within the business
lines. Such accountability would provide the corporate compliance
function with ultimateauthority regarding the handling of compliance
matters and personnel decisions and actions relating to compliance
staff, including retaining control over the budget for, and remuneration
of, all compliance staff.⁷ Compliance independence should not, however,
preclude compliance staff from working closely with the management and
staff of the various business lines. To the contrary, compliance
functions are generally more effective when strong working relationships
between compliance and business line staff exist. 

The Federal Reserve recognizes, however, that many large, complex
banking organizations have chosen to implement an organizational
structure in which compliance staff within a business line have a
reporting line into the management of the business. In these
circumstances, compliance staff should also have a reporting line
through to the corporate compliance function with respect to compliance
responsibilities. In addition, a banking organization that chooses to
implement such a dual reporting structure should ensure that the
following minimum standards are observed in order to minimizepotential
conflicts of interest associated with this approach:

(1)  In organizations with dual reporting line structures, the corporate
compliance function should play a key role in determining how compliance
matters are handled and in personnel decisions and actions (including
remuneration) affecting business line compliance and local compliance
staff, particularly senior compliance staff. Furthermore, the
organization should have in place a process designed to ensure that
disputes between the corporate compliance function and business line
management regarding compliance matters are resolved objectively. Under
such a process, the final decision-making authority should rest either
with the corporate compliance function, or with a member or committee of
senior management that has no business line responsibilities.

(2)  Compensation and incentive programs should be carefully structured
to avoid undermining the independence of compliance staff. Compliance
staff should not be compensated on the basis of the financial
performance of the business line. Such an arrangement creates an
improper conflict of interest.

(3)  Banking organizations with dual reporting line structures should
implement appropriate controls and enhanced corporate oversight to
identify and address issues that may arise from conflicts of interest
affecting compliance staff within the business lines. For example, in
these circumstances, the process for providing corporate oversight of
monitoring and testing activities performed by compliance staff within
the business lines should be especially robust. 

III.  Compliance Monitoring and Testing

Robust compliance monitoring and testing play a key role in identifying
weaknesses in existing compliance risk management controls and are,
therefore, critical components of an effective firmwide compliance risk
management program. Federal Reserve supervisory findings at large,
complex banking organizations indicate that opportunities for improving
compliance monitoring and testing programs at many of these
organizations remain.

Risk Assessments and Monitoring and Testing Programs. Risk assessments
are the foundation of an effective compliance monitoring and testing
program. The scope and frequency of compliance monitoring and testing
activities should be a function of a comprehensive assessment of the
overall compliance risk associated with a particular business activity.⁸
Many larger, more complex banking organizations, however, remain in the
process of implementing comprehensive risk assessment
methodologies. This presents a challenge to the effectiveness of
compliance monitoring and testing programs as the effectiveness of these
programs relies upon comprehensive risk assessments. Larger, more
complex banking organizations are strongly encouraged to complete the
implementation of comprehensive risk assessment methodologies and to
ensure that compliance monitoring and testing activities are based upon
the resulting risk assessments.

Testing. Although the Federal Reserve has generally observed
considerable progress in the level of compliance monitoring, there
continues to be room for improvement regarding the testing of compliance
controls. Compliance testing is necessary to validate that key
assumptions, data sources, and procedures utilized in measuring and
monitoring compliance risk can be relied upon on an ongoing basis and,
in the case of transaction testing, that controls are working as
intended. The testing of controls and remediation of deficiencies
identified as a result of testing activities are essential to
maintaining an effective internal control framework.

The scope and frequency of compliance testing activities should be based
upon the assessment of the specific compliance risks associated with a
particular business activity.   Periodic testing of compliance controls
by compliance staff is strongly encouraged as this practice tends to
result in an enhanced level of compliance testing. If, however,
compliance testing is performed exclusively by the internal audit
function, particular care should be taken to ensure that high-risk
compliance elements are not otherwise obscured by a lower overall risk
rating of a broadly defined audit entity. Otherwise, the scope and
frequency of audit coverage of higher-risk compliance elements tends to
be insufficient.

IV.  Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Senior Management

The primary responsibility for complying with applicable rules and
standards rests with the individuals within the organization as they
conduct their day-to-day business and support activities. Under the
board's oversight, senior management and the corporate compliance
function are responsible for establishing and implementing a
comprehensive and effective compliance risk management program and
oversight framework that is reasonably designed to prevent and detect
compliance breaches and issues.

To achieve its objectives, a sound and effective firmwide compliance
risk management program should have the support of both the board and
senior management. Both board and management should encourage ethical
conduct and compliance with applicable rules and standards through the
firm culture. A strong compliance culture reinforces the principle that
an organization must conduct its activities in accordance with
applicable rules and standards, and encourages employees to conduct all
activities in accordance with both the letter and the spirit of
applicable rules and standards.

As set forth in applicable law and supervisory guidance, the board and
senior management of a banking organization have different, but
complementary, roles with respect to compliance risk.⁹  The following
discussion is intended to clarify existing Federal Reserve supervisory
views with regard to responsibilities of the board related to compliance
risk management and oversight, and to differentiate these
responsibilities from those of senior management.

Boards of Directors.¹⁰ The board should oversee the development of,
review, approve and periodically monitor the firm's compliance strategy
and its alignment with the overall strategy of the firm. The board
should direct senior management on the board's information needs
regarding the types of compliance risks to which the organization is
exposed, any significant compliance matters, and the effectiveness of
the compliance risk management program. The board should oversee and
hold senior management accountable for the effective implementation of
the compliance risk management program and for the appropriate and
timely resolution of compliance issues.  The Board should hold senior
management accountable for the implementation of performance management
and compensation programs that promote sound risk management, compliance
with laws, regulations, and internal standards, including for conduct. 

The board should promote the stature and independence of the corporate
compliance function within the organization and provide the appropriate
level of resources to conduct their activities effectively.

Senior Management.  Senior management is responsible for communicating,
implementing, and reinforcing the organization's compliance
culture. Senior management also should implement and enforce the
compliance policies and compliance risk management standards. Senior
management of the corporate compliance function should establish,
support, and oversee the organization's compliance risk management
program. The corporate compliance function should report to the board,
or a committee thereof, on significant compliance matters and the
effectiveness of the compliance risk management program.

Senior management should be fully capable, qualified, and properly
motivated to manage the compliance risks arising from the organization's
business activities. Senior management should communicate the importance
of compliance across, and at all levels of, the organization through
ongoing training and other means. Under board oversight, senior
management should establish appropriate incentives to integrate
compliance objectives into the management goals and compensation
structure across the organization, and implement appropriate
disciplinary actions and other measures for  serious compliance and
compliance risk management failures. Senior management within the
corporate compliance function and senior compliance personnel within
individual business lines should have the appropriate authority,
independence, and access to personnel and information within the
organization, and appropriate resources to conduct their activities
effectively.

Senior management of a foreign banking organization's U.S. operations
should provide sufficient information to governance or control functions
in its home country, and should ensure that responsible senior
management, including in the home country, maintain a thorough
understanding of the risk and control environment governing U.S.
operations. U.S. management should assess the effectiveness of
established governance and control mechanisms on an ongoing basis,
including processes for reporting and escalating areas of concern and
implementation of corrective action as necessary.

V.  Conclusion

This SR/CA letter should be disseminated to all large, complex banking
organizations, and other institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve
as Reserve Bank staff believes appropriate. Questions may be directed to
Karen El Kochta, Senior Supervisory Financial Analyst, Compliance Risk,
Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation, at (202) 452-5206;
Chris Laursen, Manager, Risk Policy & Guidance, Division of Banking
Supervision and Regulation, at (202) 452-2478; or Phyllis Harwell,
Manager, Division of Consumer and Community Affairs, at (202)
452-3658. In addition, questions may be sent via the Board's public
website.¹¹

signed by
Deborah P. Bailey
Acting Director
Division of Banking
Supervision and Regulation

signed by
Glenn E. Loney
Deputy Director
Division of Consumer
and Community Affairs

Cross References:

-   SR letter 04-18, "Bank Holding Company Rating System"

-   SR letter 95-51, "Rating the Adequacy of Risk Management Processes
    and Internal Controls at State Member Banks and Bank Holding
    Companies"

Notes:

1.   Compliance risk is the risk of regulatory sanctions, fines,
    penalties or losses resulting from failure to comply with laws,
    rules, regulations, or other supervisory requirements applicable to
    a financial institution (applicable rules and standards).  Return to
    text.

2.   Effective compliance risk management programs incorporate controls
    designed to maintain compliance with applicable rules and standards,
    including safety and soundness and consumer protection guidance
    issued by supervisory authorities.2  Return to text.

3.   See SR letter 95-51, "Rating the Adequacy of Risk Management
    Processes and Internal Controls at State Member Banks and Bank
    Holding Companies."  This letter provides general guidance on risk
    management processes and internal controls for consolidated
    organizations, and discusses the elements of a sound risk management
    system applicable to all banking organizations for which the Federal
    Reserve has supervisory responsibility. SR 95-51 states that all
    bank holding companies should be able to assess the major risks of
    the consolidated organization. See also 12 CFR Part 208, appendix
    D-1, "Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and
    Soundness."  Return to text.

4.   Compliance policies refer to both: (1) firmwide compliance policies
    that apply to all employees throughout the organization as they
    conduct their business and support activities; and (2) the more
    detailed, business-specific policies that are further tailored to,
    and more specifically address, compliance risks inherent in specific
    business lines and jurisdictions of operation, and apply to
    employees conducting business and support activities for the
    specific business line and/or jurisdiction of operation. Compliance
    procedures refer to the control procedures that are designed to
    implement compliance policies. Compliance risk management standards
    refer to policies and procedures applicable to compliance staff as
    they fulfill their day-to-day compliance
    responsibilities. Compliance standards should clearly articulate
    expectations regarding the processes to be followed in implementing
    the organization's firmwide compliance risk management program,
    including the processes and criteria to be utilized in identifying,
    assessing, controlling, measuring, monitoring, and reporting
    compliance risk, and in providing compliance training. Compliance
    standards should also clearly articulate the roles and
    responsibilities of the various committees, functions, and staff
    with compliance support and oversight responsibilities.  Return to
    text.

5.   While the corporate compliance function is generally responsible
    for overseeing and supporting the compliance risk management
    program, it is recognized that primary responsibility for aspects of
    the compliance program may be assigned to other units within the
    organization (e.g., finance, information technology, human
    resources, etc.). The corporate compliance function, therefore, may
    or may not have responsibility for monitoring and testing the
    controls over certain compliance activities embedded within these
    units, such as those over regulatory reporting and regulatory
    capital. Nevertheless, it is important that an organization's
    compliance program incorporates appropriate controls over these
    risks and that proper oversight of the management of these risks is
    conducted.  Return to text.

6.   Foreign banking organizations with $50 billion or more in U.S.
    third-party assets will generally be considered as large banking
    organizations with complex compliance profiles for purposes of this
    SR/CA letter unless their U.S. activities are less complex in nature
    as described in Section I of this letter. The Federal Reserve's
    views on compliance risk management programs apply equally to the
    large, complex U.S. operations of foreign banking
    organizations.  Return to text.

7.   The reference to all compliance staff includes corporate, business
    line, and local compliance staff.  Return to text.

8.   Risk assessments should be based upon firmwide standards which
    establish the method for, and criteria to be utilized in, assessing
    risk throughout the organization. Risk assessments should take into
    consideration both the risk inherent in the activity, and the
    strength and effectiveness of controls designed to mitigate the
    risk.  Return to text.

9.   See, for example, the Basel compliance paper; SR letter 04-18,
    "Bank Holding Company Rating System"; and SR letter 95-51, "Rating
    the Adequacy of Risk Management Processes and Internal Controls at
    State Member Banks and Bank Holding Companies"; and the United
    States Sentencing Commission's Federal Sentencing Guidelines Manual,
    Chapter Eight, "Sentencing of Organizations.  Return to text.

10.  Foreign banking organizations should ensure that, with respect to
    their U.S. operations, the responsibilities described in this
    section are fulfilled in an appropriate manner through their
    oversight structure and risk management framework.  Return to text.

11.  See http://www.federalreserve.gov/feedback.cfm  Return to text.

Back to Top

Last Update: October 01, 2025
