                                                                                               SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                                  Attachment



                                                  Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
                                                            Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
                                                          Office of the Comptroller of the Currency



                      Guidance on Stress Testing for Banking Organizations
                     with Total Consolidated Assets of More Than $10 Billion

                                                May 14, 2012

I.      Introduction

        All banking organizations should have the capacity to understand fully their risks and the
potential impact of stressful events and circumstances on their financial condition. The U.S.
federal banking agencies have previously highlighted the use of stress testing as a means to
better understand the range of a banking organization’s potential risk exposures.1 The 2007-
2009 financial crisis underscored the need for banking organizations to incorporate stress testing
into their risk management practices, demonstrating that banking organizations unprepared for
stressful events and circumstances can suffer acute threats to their financial condition and




1
 See, e.g., Supervision and Regulation Letter SR 10-6, OCC Bulletin 2010-13 or FDIC Financial Institution
Letter (FIL) 13-2010, Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management (March 17,
2010), available at http://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2010/sr1006.htm (hereinafter Funding and
Liquidity Risk Management Policy Statement); Supervision and Regulation Letter SR 10-1, OCC Bulletin 2010-1
or FDIC FIL-2-2010, Interagency Advisory on Interest Rate Risk (January 11, 2010), available at
http://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2010/sr1001.htm (hereinafter Interest Rate Risk Advisory);
Supervision and Regulation Letter SR 09-4, Applying Supervisory Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of
Dividends, Stock Redemptions, and Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies (revised March 27, 2009),
available at http://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2009/SR0904.htm (hereinafter SR 09-04);
Supervision and Regulation Letter SR 07-1, OCC Bulletin 2006-46 or FDIC FIL-104-2006, Interagency
Guidance on Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate (January 4, 2007), available at
http://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2007/SR0701.htm; Supervision and Regulation Letter SR 01-
4, OCC Bulletin 2001-6 or FDIC FIL-9-2001, Subprime Lending (January 31, 2001), available at
http://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/2001/SR0104.htm; Supervision and Regulation Letter SR 99-
18, Assessing Capital Adequacy in Relation to Risk at Large Banking Organizations and Others with Complex
Risk Profiles (July 1, 1999), available at http://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/srletters/1999/SR9918.htm
(hereinafter SR 99-18); Supervisory Guidance: Supervisory Review Process of Capital Adequacy (Pillar 2)
Related to the Implementation of the Basel II Advanced Capital Framework, 73 FR 44620 (July 31, 2008)
(hereinafter Supervisory Review Process of Capital Adequacy); The Supervisory Capital Assessment Program:
Overview of Results (May 7, 2009), available at
http://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/press/bcreg/bcreg20090507a1.pdf; Comprehensive Capital Analysis
and Review: Objectives and Overview (March 18, 2011), available at
http://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/press/bcreg/bcreg20110318a1.pdf; and 12 CFR 225.8.



                                                        1
                                                                                                   SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                                      Attachment

viability.2 The Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (collectively, the “agencies”) are issuing this guidance to
emphasize the importance of stress testing as an ongoing risk management practice that supports
banking organizations’ forward-looking assessment of risks and better equips them to address a
range of adverse outcomes.

         This joint guidance is applicable to all institutions supervised by the agencies with more
than $10 billion in total consolidated assets. Specifically, with respect to the OCC, these banking
organizations include national banking associations, federal savings associations, and federal
branches and agencies; with respect to the Board, these banking organizations include state
member banks, bank holding companies, savings and loan holding companies, and all other
institutions for which the Federal Reserve is the primary federal supervisor; with respect to the
FDIC, these banking organizations include state nonmember banks, state savings associations
and insured branches of foreign banks.3

        The guidance does not apply to any supervised institution below the designated asset
threshold. Certain other existing supervisory guidance that applies to all supervised institutions
discusses the use of stress testing as a tool in certain aspects of risk management, such as for
commercial real estate concentrations, liquidity risk management, and interest-rate risk
management. However, no institution at or below $10 billion in total consolidated assets is
subject to this final guidance.

        Building upon previously issued supervisory guidance that discusses the uses and merits
of stress testing in specific areas of risk management, this guidance provides broad principles a
banking organization should follow in conducting its stress testing activities, such as ensuring
that those activities fit into the organization’s overall risk management program. The guidance
outlines broad principles for a satisfactory stress testing framework and describes the manner in
which stress testing should be employed as an integral component of risk management that is
applicable at various levels of aggregation within a banking organization, as well as for
contributing to capital and liquidity planning.4 While the guidance is not intended to provide
detailed instructions for conducting stress testing for any particular risk or business area, the
document describes several types of stress testing activities and how they may be most
appropriately used by banking organizations.



2
  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376) requires
financial organizations with more than $10 billion in total consolidated assets to conduct a stress test at least
annually. See generally 12 U.S.C. 5365(i)(2).
3
  Given the unique structure of U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banking organizations, the agencies recognize
that certain aspects of this guidance may not apply to those U.S. branches and agencies (such as the portions related
to capital stress testing) or may apply differently (such as the portions related to governance and controls).
Supervisors can work with these entities on a case-by-case basis to identify the portions of the guidance that are
most relevant for them.
4
  While capital and liquidity stress tests may be among the most prominent, other types of stress testing exercises
that use different metrics should be conducted.



                                                          2
                                                                                                   SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                                      Attachment

II.      Overview of Stress Testing Framework

        For purposes of this guidance, stress testing refers to exercises used to conduct a forward-
looking assessment of the potential impact of various adverse events and circumstances on a
banking organization. Stress testing occurs at various levels of aggregation, including on an
enterprise-wide basis. As outlined in section IV, there are several approaches and applications
for stress testing and a banking organization should consider the use of each in its stress testing
framework.

        An effective stress testing framework provides a comprehensive, integrated, and forward-
looking set of activities for a banking organization to employ along with other practices in order
to assist in the identification and measurement of its material risks and vulnerabilities, including
those that may manifest themselves during stressful economic or financial environments, or arise
from firm-specific adverse events. Such a framework should supplement other quantitative risk
management practices, such as those that rely primarily on statistical estimates of risk or loss
estimates based on historical data, as well as qualitative practices. In this manner, stress testing
can assist in highlighting unidentified or under-assessed risk concentrations and
interrelationships and their potential impact on the banking organization during times of stress.5

         A banking organization should develop and implement its stress testing framework in a
manner commensurate with its size, complexity, business activities, and overall risk profile. Its
stress testing framework should include clearly defined objectives, well-designed scenarios
tailored to the banking organization’s business and risks, well-documented assumptions, sound
methodologies to assess potential impact on the banking organization’s financial condition,
informative management reports, ongoing and effective review of stress testing processes, and
recommended actions based on stress test results. Stress testing should incorporate the use of
high-quality data and appropriate assumptions about the performance of the institution under
stress to ensure that the outputs are credible and can be used to support decision-making.
Importantly, a banking organization should have a sound governance and control infrastructure
with objective, critical review to ensure the stress testing framework is functioning as intended.

        A stress testing framework should allow a banking organization to conduct consistent,
repeatable exercises that focus on its material exposures, activities, risks, and strategies, and also
conduct ad hoc scenarios as needed. The framework should consider the impact of both firm-
specific and systemic stress events and circumstances that are based on historical experience as
well as on hypothetical occurrences that could have an adverse impact on a banking
organization’s operations and financial condition. Banking organizations subject to this
guidance should develop policies on reviewing and assessing the effectiveness of their stress
testing frameworks, and use those policies at least annually to assess the effectiveness of their
frameworks. Such assessments should help to ensure that stress testing coverage is
comprehensive, tests are relevant and current, methodologies are sound, and results are properly
considered.
5
  For purposes of this guidance, the term “concentrations” refers to groups of exposures and/or activities that have
the potential to produce losses large enough to bring about a material change in a banking organization’s risk profile
or financial condition.



                                                          3
                                                                                      SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                         Attachment


III.   General Stress Testing Principles

       A banking organization should develop and implement an effective stress testing
framework as part of its broader risk management and governance processes. The framework
should include several activities and exercises, and not just rely on any single test or type of test,
since every stress test has limitations and relies on certain assumptions.

        The uses of a banking organization’s stress testing framework should include, but are not
limited to, augmenting risk identification and measurement; estimating business line revenues
and losses and informing business line strategies; identifying vulnerabilities, assessing the
potential impact from those vulnerabilities, and identifying appropriate actions; assessing capital
adequacy and enhancing capital planning; assessing liquidity adequacy and informing
contingency funding plans; contributing to strategic planning; enabling senior management to
better integrate strategy, risk management, and capital and liquidity planning decisions; and
assisting with recovery and resolution planning. This section describes general principles that a
banking organization should apply in implementing such a framework.

        Principle 1: A banking organization’s stress testing framework should include activities
and exercises that are tailored to and sufficiently capture the banking organization’s exposures,
activities, and risks.

        An effective stress testing framework covers a banking organization’s full set of material
exposures, activities, and risks, whether on or off the balance sheet, based on effective
enterprise-wide risk identification and assessment. Risks addressed in a firm’s stress testing
framework may include (but are not limited to) credit, market, operational, interest-rate,
liquidity, country, and strategic risk. The framework should also address non-contractual
sources of risks, such as those related to a banking organization’s reputation. Appropriate
coverage is important as stress testing results could give a false sense of comfort if certain
portfolios, exposures, liabilities, or business line activities are not included. Stress testing
exercises should be part of a banking organization’s regular risk identification and measurement
activities. For example, in assessing credit risk a banking organization should evaluate the
potential impact of adverse outcomes, such as an economic downturn or declining asset values,
on the condition of its borrowers and counterparties, and on the value of any supporting
collateral. As another example, in assessing interest-rate risk, banking organizations should
analyze the effects of significant interest rate shocks or other yield-curve movements.

        An effective stress testing framework should be applied at various levels in the banking
organization, such as business line, portfolio, and risk type, as well as on an enterprise-wide
basis. In many cases, stress testing may be more effective at business line and portfolio levels, as
a higher level of aggregation may cloud or underestimate the potential impact of adverse
outcomes on a banking organization’s financial condition. In some cases, stress testing can also
be applied to individual exposures or instruments. Each stress test should be tailored to the
relevant level of aggregation, capturing critical risk drivers, internal and external influences, and
other key considerations at the relevant level.



                                                  4
                                                                                                   SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                                      Attachment

         Stress testing should capture the interplay among different exposures, activities, and risks
and their combined effects. While stress testing several types of risks or business lines
simultaneously may prove operationally challenging, a banking organization should aim to
identify common risk drivers across risk types and business lines that can adversely affect its
financial condition. Accordingly, stress tests should provide a banking organization with the
ability to identify potential concentrations – including those that may not be readily observable
during benign periods and whose sensitivity to a common set of factors is apparent only during
times of stress – and to assess the impact of identified concentrations of exposures, activities, and
risks within and across portfolios and business lines and on the organization as a whole.

        Stress testing should be tailored to the banking organization’s idiosyncrasies and specific
business mix and include all major business lines and significant individual counterparties. For
example, a banking organization that is geographically concentrated may determine that a certain
segment of its business may be more adversely affected by shocks to economic activity at the
state or local level than by a severe national recession. On the other hand, if the banking
organization has significant global operations, it should consider scenarios that have an
international component and stress conditions that could affect the different aspects of its
operations in different ways, as well as conditions that could adversely affect all of its operations
at the same time.

        A banking organization should use its stress testing framework to determine whether
exposures, activities, and risks under normal and stressed conditions are aligned with the banking
organization’s risk appetite.6 A banking organization can use stress testing to help inform
decisions about its strategic direction and/or risk appetite by better understanding the risks from
its exposures or of engaging in certain business practices. For example, if a banking
organization pursues a business strategy for a new or modified product, and the banking
organization does not have long-standing experience with that product or lacks extensive data,
the banking organization can use stress testing to identify the product’s potential downsides and
unanticipated risks. Scenarios used in a banking organization’s stress tests should be relevant to
the direction and strategy set by its board of directors, as well as sufficiently severe to be credible
to internal and external stakeholders.

         Principle 2: An effective stress testing framework employs multiple conceptually sound
stress testing activities and approaches.

        All measures of risk, including stress tests, have an element of uncertainty due to
assumptions, limitations, and other factors associated with using past performance measures and
forward-looking estimates. Banking organizations should, therefore, use multiple stress testing
activities and approaches (consistent with section IV), and ensure that each is conceptually

6
  For purposes of this guidance, risk appetite is defined as the level and type of risk an organization is able and
willing to assume in its exposures and business activities, given its business objectives and obligations to
stakeholders. See Senior Supervisors Group, Observations on Developments in Risk Appetite Frameworks and IT
Infrastructure (December 23, 2010), available at
http://www.newyorkfed.org/newsevents/news/banking/2010/an101223.pdf.



                                                          5
                                                                                    SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                       Attachment

sound. Stress tests usually vary in design and complexity, including the number of factors
employed and the degree of stress applied. A banking organization should ensure that the
complexity of any given test does not undermine its integrity, usefulness, or clarity. In some
cases, relatively simple tests can be very useful and informative.

       Additionally, effective stress testing relies on high-quality input data and information to
produce credible outcomes. A banking organization should ensure that it has readily available
data and other information for the types of stress tests it uses, including key variables that drive
performance. In addition, a banking organization should have appropriate management
information systems (MIS) and data processes that enable it to collect, sort, aggregate, and
update data and other information efficiently and reliably within business lines and across the
banking organization for use in stress testing. If certain data and information are not current or
not available, or if proxies are used, a banking organization should analyze the stress test outputs
with an understanding of those data limitations.

        A banking organization should also document the assumptions used in its stress tests and
note the degree of uncertainty that may be incorporated into the tools used for stress testing. In
some cases, it may be appropriate to present and analyze test results not just in terms of point
estimates, but also including the potential margin of error or statistical uncertainty around the
estimates. Furthermore, almost all stress tests, including well-developed quantitative tests
supported by high-quality data, employ a certain amount of expert or business judgment, and the
role and impact of such judgment should be clearly documented. In some cases, when credible
data are lacking and more quantitative tests are operationally challenging or in the early stages of
development, a banking organization may choose to employ more qualitatively based tests,
provided that the tests are properly documented and their assumptions are transparent.
Regardless of the type of stress tests used, a banking organization should understand and clearly
document all assumptions, uncertainties, and limitations, and provide that information to users of
the stress testing results.

       Principle 3: An effective stress testing framework is forward-looking and flexible.

        A stress testing framework should be sufficiently dynamic and flexible to incorporate
changes in a banking organization’s on- and off-balance-sheet activities, portfolio composition,
asset quality, operating environment, business strategy, and other risks that may arise over time
from firm-specific events, macroeconomic and financial market developments, or some
combination of these events. A banking organization should also ensure that its MIS are capable
of incorporating relatively rapid changes in exposures, activities, and risks.

        While stress testing should utilize available historical information, a banking organization
should look beyond assumptions based only on historical data and challenge conventional
assumptions. A banking organization should ensure that it is not constrained by past experience
and that it considers multiple scenarios, even scenarios that have not occurred in the recent past
or during the banking organization’s history. For example, a banking organization should not
assume that if it has suffered no or minimal losses in a certain business line or product that such
a pattern will continue. Structural changes in customer, product, and financial markets can
present unprecedented situations for a banking organization. A banking organization with any


                                                 6
                                                                                     SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                        Attachment

type of significant concentration can be particularly vulnerable to rapid changes in economic and
financial conditions and should try to identify and better understand the impact of those
vulnerabilities in advance. For example, the risks related to residential mortgages were
underestimated for a number of years leading up to the 2007-2009 financial crisis by a large
number of banking organizations, and those risks eventually affected the banking organizations
in a variety of ways. Effective stress testing can help a banking organization identify any such
concentrations and help understand the potential impact of several key aspects of the business
being exposed to common drivers.

        Stress testing should be conducted over various relevant time horizons to adequately
capture both conditions that may materialize in the near term and adverse situations that take
longer to develop. For example, when a banking organization stress tests a portfolio for market
and credit risks simultaneously, it should consider that certain credit risk losses may take longer
to materialize than market risk losses, and also that the severity and speed of mark-to-market
losses may create significant vulnerabilities for the firm, even if a more fundamental analysis of
how realized losses may play out over time seems to show less threatening results. A banking
organization should carefully consider the incremental and cumulative effects of stress
conditions, particularly with respect to potential interactions among exposures, activities, and
risks and possible second-order or “knock-on” effects.

        In addition to conducting formal, routine stress tests, a banking organization should have
the flexibility to conduct new or ad hoc stress tests in a timely manner to address rapidly
emerging risks. These less routine tests usually can be conducted in a short amount of time and
may be simpler and less extensive than a banking organization’s more formal, regular tests.
However, for its ad hoc tests a banking organization should still have the capacity to bring
together approximated information on risks, exposures, and activities and assess their impact.

        More broadly, a banking organization should continue updating and maintaining its stress
testing framework in light of new risks, better understanding of the banking organization’s
exposures and activities, new stress testing techniques, and any changes in its operating structure
and environment. A banking organization’s stress testing development should be iterative, with
ongoing adjustments and refinements to better calibrate the tests to provide current and relevant
information. Banking organizations should document the ongoing development of their stress
testing practices.

       Principle 4: Stress test results should be clear, actionable, well supported, and inform
decision-making.

        Stress testing should incorporate measures that adequately and effectively convey results
of the impact of adverse outcomes. Such measures may include, for example, changes to asset
values, accounting and economic profit and loss, revenue streams, liquidity levels, cash flows,
regulatory capital, risk-weighted assets, the loan loss allowance, internal capital estimates, levels
of problem assets, breaches in covenants or key trigger levels, or other relevant measures. Stress
test measures should be tailored to the type of test and the particular level at which the test is
applied (for example, at the business line or risk level). Some stress tests may require using a
range of measures to evaluate the full impact of certain events, such as a severe systemic event.
In addition, all stress test results should be accompanied by descriptive and qualitative

                                                  7
                                                                                     SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                        Attachment

information (such as key assumptions and limitations) to allow users to interpret the exercises in
context. The analysis and the process should be well documented so that stress testing processes
can be replicated if need be.

        A banking organization should regularly communicate stress test results to appropriate
levels within the banking organization to foster dialogue around stress testing, keep the board of
directors, management, and staff apprised, and to inform stress testing approaches, results, and
decisions in other areas of the banking organization. A banking organization should maintain an
internal summary of test results to document at a high level the range of its stress testing
activities and outcomes, as well as proposed follow-up actions. Regular review of stress test
results can be an important part of a banking organization’s ability over time to track the impact
of ongoing business activities, changes in exposures, varying economic conditions, and market
movements on its financial condition. In addition, management should review stress testing
activities on a regular basis to determine, among other things, the validity of the assumptions, the
severity of tests, the robustness of the estimates, the performance of any underlying models, and
the stability and reasonableness of the results.

        Stress test results should inform analysis and decision-making related to business
strategies, limits, risk profile, and other aspects of risk management, consistent with the banking
organization’s established risk appetite. A banking organization should review the results of its
various stress tests with the strengths and limitations of each test in mind (consistent with
Principle 2), determine which results should be given greater or lesser weight, analyze the
combined impact of its tests, and then evaluate potential courses of action based on that analysis.
A banking organization may decide to maintain its current course based on test results; indeed,
the results of highly severe stress tests need not always indicate that immediate action has to be
taken. Wherever possible, benchmarking or other comparative analysis should be used to
evaluate the stress testing results relative to other tools and measures – both internal and external
to the banking organization – to provide proper context and a check on results.

       Principle 5: An organization’s stress testing framework should include strong governance
and effective internal controls.

         Similar to other aspects of its risk management, a banking organization’s stress testing
framework will be effective only if it is subject to strong governance and effective internal
controls to ensure the framework is functioning as intended. Strong governance and effective
internal controls help ensure that the framework contains core elements, from clearly defined
stress testing objectives to recommended actions. Importantly, strong governance provides
critical review of elements of the stress testing framework, especially regarding key assumptions,
uncertainties, and limitations. A banking organization should ensure that the stress testing
framework is not isolated within a banking organization’s risk management function, but is
firmly integrated into business lines, capital and asset-liability committees, and other decision-
making bodies. Along those lines, the board of directors and senior management should play
key roles in ensuring strong governance and controls. The extent and sophistication of a banking
organization’s governance over its stress testing framework should align with the extent and
sophistication of that framework. Additional details regarding governance and controls of an
organization’s stress testing framework are outlined in section VI.

                                                  8
                                                                                    SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                       Attachment


IV.    Stress Testing Approaches and Applications

        This section discusses some general types of stress testing approaches and applications.
For any type of stress test, banking organizations should indicate the specific purpose and the
focus of the test. Defining the scope of a given stress test is also important, whether it applies at
the portfolio, business line, risk type, or enterprise-wide level, or even just for an individual
exposure or counterparty. Based on the purpose and scope of the test, different stress testing
techniques are most useful. Thus, a banking organization should employ several approaches and
applications; these might include scenario analysis, sensitivity analysis, enterprise-wide stress
testing, and reverse stress testing. Consistent with Principle 1, banking organizations should
apply these commensurate with their size, complexity, and business profile, and may not need to
incorporate all of the details described below. Consistent with Principle 3, banking organizations
should also recognize that stress testing approaches will evolve over time and they should update
their practices as needed.

       Scenario Analysis

        Scenario analysis refers to a type of stress testing in which a banking organization applies
historical or hypothetical scenarios to assess the impact of various events and circumstances,
including extreme ones. Scenarios usually involve some kind of coherent, logical narrative or
“story” as to why certain events and circumstances can occur and in which combination and
order, such as a severe recession, failure of a major counterparty, loss of major clients, natural or
man-made disaster, localized economic downturn, disruptions in funding or capital markets, or a
sudden change in interest rates brought about by unfavorable inflation developments. Scenario
analysis can be applied at various levels of the banking organization, such as within individual
business lines to help identify factors that could harm those business lines most.

        Stress scenarios should reflect a banking organization’s unique vulnerabilities to factors
that affect its exposures, activities, and risks. For example, if a banking organization is
concentrated in a particular line of business, such as commercial real estate or residential
mortgage lending, it would be appropriate to explore the impact of a downturn in those particular
market segments. Similarly, a banking organization with lending concentrations to oil and gas
companies should include scenarios related to the energy sector. Other relevant factors to be
considered in scenario analysis relate to operational, reputational and legal risks to a banking
organization, such as significant events of fraud or litigation, or a situation when a banking
organization feels compelled to provide support to an affiliate or provide other types of non-
contractual support to avoid reputational damage. Scenarios should be internally consistent and
portray realistic outcomes based on underlying relationships among variables, and should include
only those mitigating developments that are consistent with the scenario. Additionally, a
banking organization should consider the best manner to try to capture combinations of stressful
events and circumstances, including second-order and “knock-on” effects. Ultimately, a banking
organization should select and design multiple scenarios that are relevant to its profile and make
intuitive sense, use enough scenarios to explore the range of potential outcomes, and ensure that
the scenarios continue to be timely and relevant.



                                                  9
                                                                                  SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                     Attachment

        A banking organization may apply scenario analysis within the context of its existing risk
measurement tools (e.g., the impact of a severe decline in market prices on a banking
organization’s value-at-risk (VaR) measure) or use it as an alternative, supplemental measure.
For instance, a banking organization may use scenario analysis to measure the impact of a severe
financial market disturbance and compare those results to what is produced by its VaR or other
measures. This type of scenario analysis should account for known shortcomings of other risk
measurement practices. For example, market risk VaR models generally assume liquid markets
with known prices. Scenario analysis could shed light on the effects of a breakdown in liquidity
and of valuation difficulties.

        One of the key challenges with scenario analysis is to translate a scenario into balance
sheet impact, changes in risk measures, potential losses, or other measures of adverse financial
impact, which would vary depending on the test design and the type of scenario used. For some
aspects of scenario analysis, banking organizations may use econometric or similar types of
analysis to estimate a relationship between some underlying factors or drivers and risk estimates
or loss projections based on a given data set, and then extrapolate to see the impact of more
severe inputs. Care should be taken not to make assumptions that relationships from benign or
mildly adverse times will hold during more severe times or that estimating such relationships is
relatively straightforward. For example, linear relationships between risk drivers and losses may
become nonlinear during times of stress. In addition, organizations should recognize that there
can be multiple permutations of outcomes from just a few key risk drivers.

       Sensitivity Analysis

         Sensitivity analysis refers to a banking organization’s assessment of its exposures,
activities, and risks when certain variables, parameters, and inputs are “stressed” or “shocked.”
A key goal of sensitivity analysis is to test the impact of assumptions on outcomes. Generally,
sensitivity analysis differs from scenario analysis in that it involves changing variables,
parameters, or inputs without an explicit underlying reason or narrative, in order to explore what
occurs under a range of inputs and at extreme or highly adverse levels. In this type of analysis a
banking organization may realize, for example, that a given relationship is much more difficult to
estimate at extreme levels.

        A banking organization may apply sensitivity analysis at various levels of aggregation to
estimate the impact from a change in one or more key variables. The results may help a banking
organization better understand the range of outcomes from some of its models, such as
developing a distribution of output based on a variety of extreme inputs. For example, a banking
organization may choose to calculate a range of changes to a structured security’s overall value
using a range of different assumptions about the performance and linkage of underlying cash
flows. Sensitivity analysis should be conducted periodically due to potential changes in a
banking organization’s exposures, activities, operating environment, or the relationship of
variables to one another.

        Sensitivity analysis can also help to assess a combined impact on a banking organization
of several variables, parameters, factors, or drivers. For example, a banking organization could
better understand the impact on its credit losses from a combined increase in default rates and a
decrease in collateral values. A banking organization could also explore the impact of highly

                                                10
                                                                                     SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                        Attachment

adverse capitalization rates, declines in net operating income, and reductions in collateral when
evaluating its risks from commercial real estate exposures. Sensitivity analysis can be especially
useful because it is not necessarily accompanied by a particular narrative or scenario; that is,
sensitivity analysis can provide banking organizations more flexibility to explore the impact of
potential stresses that they may not be able to capture in designed scenarios. Furthermore,
banking organizations may decide to conduct sensitivity analysis of their scenarios, i.e., choosing
different levels or paths of variables to understand the sensitivities of choices made during
scenario design. For instance, banking organizations may decide to apply a few different
interest-rate paths for a given scenario.

       Enterprise-Wide Stress Testing

        Enterprise-wide stress testing is an application of stress testing that involves assessing the
impact of certain specified scenarios on the banking organization as a whole, particularly with
regard to capital and liquidity. As is the case with scenario analysis more generally, enterprise-
wide stress testing involves robust scenario design and effective translation of scenarios into
measures of impact. Enterprise-wide stress tests can help a banking organization in its efforts to
assess the impact of its full set of risks under adverse events and circumstances, but should be
supplemented with other stress tests and other risk measurement tools given inherent limitations
in capturing all risks and all adverse outcomes in one test.

        Scenario design for enterprise-wide stress testing involves developing scenarios that
affect the banking organization as a whole that stem from macroeconomic, market-wide, and/or
firm-specific events. These scenarios should incorporate the potential simultaneous occurrence
of both firm-specific and macroeconomic and market-wide events, considering system-wide
interactions and feedback effects. For example, price shocks may lead to significant portfolio
losses, rising funding gaps, a ratings downgrade, and diminished access to funding. In general, it
is a good practice to consult with a large set of individuals within the banking organization – in
various business lines, research and risk areas – to gain a wide perspective on how enterprise-
wide scenarios should be designed and to ensure that the scenarios capture the relevant aspects of
the banking organization’s business and risks. Banking organizations should also conduct
scenarios of varying severity to gauge the relative impact. At least some scenarios should be of
sufficient severity to challenge the viability of the banking organization, and should include
instantaneous market shocks and stressful periods of extended duration (e.g., not just a one or
two-quarter shock after which conditions return to normal).

        Selection of scenario variables is important for enterprise-wide tests, because these
variables generally serve as the link between the overall narrative of the scenario and tangible
impact on the banking organization as a whole. For instance, in aiming to capture the combined
impact of a severe recession and a financial market downturn, a banking organization may
choose a set of variables such as changes in gross domestic product (GDP), unemployment rate,
interest rates, stock market levels, or home price levels. However, particularly when assessing
the impact on the whole banking organization, using a large number of variables can make a test
more cumbersome and complicated – so a banking organization may also benefit from simpler
scenarios or from those with fewer variables. Banking organizations should balance the
comprehensiveness of contributing variables and tractability of the exercise.


                                                  11
                                                                                    SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                       Attachment

         As with scenario analysis generally, translating scenarios into tangible effects on the
banking organization as a whole presents certain challenges. A banking organization should
identify appropriate and meaningful mechanisms for translating scenarios into relevant internal
risk parameters that provide a firm-wide view of risks and understanding of how these risks are
translated into loss estimates. Not all business areas are equally affected by a given scenario, and
problems in one business area can have effects on other units. However, for an enterprise-wide
test, assumptions across business lines and risk areas should remain constant for the chosen
scenario, since the objective is to see how the banking organization as a whole will be affected
by a common scenario.

       Reverse Stress Testing

        Reverse stress testing is a tool that allows a banking organization to assume a known
adverse outcome, such as suffering a credit loss that breaches regulatory capital ratios or
suffering severe liquidity constraints that render it unable to meet its obligations, and then
deduce the types of events that could lead to such an outcome. This type of stress testing may
help a banking organization to consider scenarios beyond its normal business expectations and
see the impact of severe systemic effects on the banking organization. It also allows a banking
organization to challenge common assumptions about its performance and expected mitigation
strategies.

         Reverse stress testing helps to explore so-called “break the bank” situations, allowing a
banking organization to set aside the issue of estimating the likelihood of severe events and to
focus more on what kinds of events could threaten the viability of the banking organization.
This type of stress testing also helps a banking organization evaluate the combined effect of
several types of extreme events and circumstances that might threaten the survival of the banking
organization, even if in isolation each of the effects might be manageable. For instance, reverse
stress testing may help a banking organization recognize that a certain level of unemployment
would have a severe impact on credit losses, that a market disturbance could create additional
losses and result in rising funding costs, and that a firm-specific case of fraud would cause even
further losses and reputational impact that could threaten a banking organization’s viability. In
some cases, reverse stress tests could reveal to a banking organization that “breaking the bank” is
not as remote an outcome as originally thought.

        Given the numerous potential threats to a banking organization’s viability, the
organization should ensure that it focuses first on those scenarios that have the largest firm-wide
impact, such as insolvency or illiquidity, but also on those that seem most imminent given the
current environment. Focusing on the most prominent vulnerabilities helps a banking
organization prioritize its choice of scenarios for reverse stress testing. However, a banking
organization should also consider a wider range of possible scenarios that could jeopardize the
viability of the banking organization, exploring what could represent potential blind spots.
Reverse stress testing can highlight previously unacknowledged sources of risk that could be
mitigated through enhanced risk management.




                                                12
                                                                                                     SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                                        Attachment

V.       Stress Testing for Assessing the Adequacy of Capital and Liquidity

         There are many uses of stress testing within banking organizations. Prominent among
these are stress tests designed to assess the adequacy of capital and liquidity. Given the
importance of capital and liquidity to a banking organization’s viability, stress testing should be
applied in these two areas in particular, including an evaluation of the interaction between capital
and liquidity and the potential for both to become impaired at the same time. Depletions and
shortages of capital or liquidity can cause a banking organization to no longer perform
effectively as a financial intermediary, be viewed by its counterparties as no longer viable,
become insolvent, or diminish its capacity to meet legal and financial obligations. A banking
organization’s capital and liquidity stress testing should consider how losses, earnings, cash
flows, capital, and liquidity would be affected in an environment in which multiple risks
manifest themselves at the same time, for example, an increase in credit losses during an adverse
interest-rate environment. Additionally, banking organizations should recognize that at the end
of the time horizon considered by a given stress test, they may still have substantial residual risks
or problem exposures that may continue to pressure capital and liquidity resources.

        Stress testing for capital and liquidity adequacy should be conducted in coordination with
a banking organization’s overall strategy and annual planning cycles. Results should be
refreshed in the event of major strategic decisions, or other decisions that can materially impact
capital or liquidity. Banking organizations should conduct stress testing for capital and liquidity
adequacy periodically.

         Capital Stress Testing

        Capital stress testing results can serve as a useful tool to support a banking organization’s
capital planning and corporate governance.7 They may help a banking organization better
understand its vulnerabilities and evaluate the impact of adverse outcomes on its capital position
and ensure that the banking organization holds adequate capital given its business model,
including the complexity of its activities and its risk profile. Capital stress testing complements a
banking organization’s regulatory capital analysis8 by providing a forward-looking assessment of
capital adequacy, usually with a forecast horizon of at least two years (with the recognition that
the effects of certain stress conditions could extend beyond two years for some stress tests), and
highlighting the potential adverse effects on capital levels and ratios from risks not fully captured
in regulatory capital requirements. It should also be used to help a banking organization assess
the quality and composition of capital and its ability to absorb losses. Stress testing can aid

7
 In this manner, stress testing can form an integral part of an organization’s internal capital adequacy process,
consistent with supervisory standards outlined in SR 09-4, SR 99-18, and Supervisory Review Process of Capital
Adequacy, supra note 12.
8
  While savings and loan holding companies currently are not subject to consolidated regulatory leverage or risk-
based capital requirements, a savings and loan holding company should have sufficient capital and an effective
capital planning process, consistent with its overall risk profile and considering the size, scope, and complexity of its
operations, to ensure the safe and sound operation of the company. See Supervision and Regulation Letter SR 11-
11, Supervision of Savings and Loan Holding Companies (July 21, 2011), available at
http://www.federalreserve.gov/bankinforeg/srletters/sr1111.pdf.



                                                           13
                                                                                                      SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                                         Attachment

capital contingency planning by helping management identify exposures or risks in advance that
would need to be reduced and actions that could be taken to bolster capital levels or otherwise
maintain capital adequacy, as well as actions that in times of stress might not be possible – such
as raising capital.

        Capital stress testing should include exercises that analyze the potential for changes in
earnings, losses, reserves, and other potential effects on capital under a variety of stressful
circumstances. Such testing should also capture any potential change in risk-weighted assets, the
ability of capital to absorb losses, and any resulting impact on the banking organization’s capital
ratios. It should include all relevant risk types and other factors that have a potential to affect
capital adequacy, whether directly or indirectly, including firm-specific ones. A banking
organization should also explore the potential for possible balance sheet expansion to put
pressure on capital ratios and consider risk mitigation and capital preservation options, other than
simply shrinking the balance sheet. Capital stress testing should assess the potential impact of a
banking organization’s material subsidiaries suffering capital problems on their own – such as
being unable to meet local country capital requirements – even if the consolidated banking
organization is not encountering problems.9 Where material relative to the banking
organization's capital, counterparty exposures should also be included in capital stress testing.

        Enterprise-wide stress testing, as described in section IV, should be an integral part of a
banking organization’s capital stress testing.10 Such enterprise-wide testing should include pro-
forma estimates of not only potential losses and resources available to absorb losses, but also
potential planned capital actions (such as dividends or share repurchases) that would affect the
banking organization’s capital position, including regulatory and other capital ratios. There
should also be consideration of the impact on the banking organization’s allowance for loan and
lease losses and other relevant financial metrics. Even with very effective enterprise-wide tests,
banking organizations should use capital stress testing in conjunction with other internal
approaches (in addition to regulatory measures) for assessing capital adequacy, such as those that
rely primarily on statistical estimates of risk or loss estimates based on historical data.

           Liquidity stress testing

        A banking organization should also conduct stress testing for liquidity adequacy.11
Through such stress testing a banking organization can work to identify vulnerabilities related to
liquidity adequacy in light of both firm-specific and market-wide stress events and
circumstances. Effective stress testing helps a banking organization identify and quantify the
depth, source, and degree of potential liquidity and funding strain and to analyze possible
impacts on its cash flows, liquidity position, profitability, and other aspects of its financial
condition over various time horizons. For example, stress testing can be used to explore

9
  For regulated subsidiaries, stress testing activities should be fully consistent with the regulations and guidance of
the relevant primary federal supervisor.
10
  The agencies expect that the stress test requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act for companies with more than $10
billion in assets would be an integral part of this type of stress testing.
11
     See, Funding and Liquidity Risk Management Policy Statement and Interest Rate Risk Advisory, supra note 12.



                                                           14
                                                                                         SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                            Attachment

potential funding shortfalls, shortages in liquid assets, the inability to issue debt, exposure to
possible deposit outflows, volatility in short-term brokered deposits, sensitivity of funding to a
ratings downgrade, and the impact of reduced collateral values on borrowing capacity at the
Federal Home Loan Banks, the Federal Reserve discount window, or other secured wholesale
funding sources.

         Liquidity stress testing should explore the potential impact of adverse developments that
may affect market and asset liquidity, including the freezing up of credit and funding markets,
and the corresponding impact on the banking organization. Such tests can also help identify the
conditions under which balance sheets might expand, thus creating additional funding needs
(e.g., through accelerated drawdowns on unfunded commitments). These tests also help
determine whether the banking organization has a sufficient liquidity buffer to meet various
types of future liquidity demands under stressful conditions. In this regard, liquidity stress
testing should be an integral part of the development and maintenance of a banking
organization’s contingency funding planning. Liquidity stress testing should include enterprise-
wide tests as discussed in section IV, but should also be applied, as appropriate, at lower levels
of the banking organization, and in particular should account for regulatory or supervisory
restrictions on inter-affiliate funding and asset transfers. As with capital stress testing, banking
organizations may need to conduct liquidity stress tests at both the consolidated and subsidiary
level. In undertaking enterprise-wide liquidity tests banking organizations should make realistic
assumptions as to the implications of liquidity stresses in one part of the banking organization on
other parts.

        An effective stress testing framework should explore the potential for capital and
liquidity problems to arise at the same time or exacerbate one another. For example, a banking
organization in a stressed liquidity position is often required to take actions that have a negative
direct or indirect capital impact (e.g., selling assets at a loss or incurring funding costs at above
market rates to meet funding needs). A banking organization’s liquidity stress analysis should
explore situations in which the banking organization may be operating with a capital position
that exceeds regulatory minimums, but is nonetheless viewed within the financial markets or by
its counterparties as being of questionable viability. Assessing the potential interaction of capital
and liquidity can be challenging and may not be possible within a single stress test, so
organizations should explore several avenues to assess that interaction. As with other
applications of stress testing, for its capital and liquidity stress tests, it is beneficial for a banking
organization to articulate clearly its objectives for a post-stress outcome, for instance to remain a
viable financial market participant that is able to meet its existing and prospective obligations
and commitments. In such cases, banking organizations would have to consider which measures
of financial condition would need to be met on a post-stress basis to secure the confidence of
counterparties and market participants.

VI.     Governance and Controls

        As noted under Principle 5, a banking organization’s stress testing framework will be
effective only if it is subject to strong governance and controls to ensure the framework is
functioning as intended. The extent and sophistication of a banking organization’s governance



                                                    15
                                                                                                 SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                                    Attachment

over its stress testing framework should align with the extent and sophistication of that
framework.

        Governance over a banking organization’s stress testing framework rests with the
banking organization’s board of directors and senior management. As part of their overall
responsibilities, a banking organization’s board and senior management should establish a
comprehensive, integrated and effective stress testing framework that fits into the broader risk
management of the banking organization. While the board is ultimately responsible for ensuring
that the banking organization has an effective stress testing framework, senior management
generally has responsibility for implementing that framework. Senior management duties should
include establishing adequate policies and procedures and ensuring compliance with those
policies and procedures, assigning competent staff, overseeing stress test development and
implementation, evaluating stress test results, reviewing any findings related to the functioning
of stress test processes, and taking prompt remedial action where necessary. Senior
management, directly and through relevant committees, also should be responsible for regularly
reporting to the board on stress testing developments (including the process to design tests and
develop scenarios) and on stress testing results (including from individual tests, where material),
as well as on compliance with stress testing policy. Board members should actively evaluate and
discuss this information, ensuring that the stress testing framework is in line with the banking
organization’s risk appetite, overall strategy and business plans, and contingency plans, directing
changes where appropriate.

       A banking organization should have written policies, approved and annually reviewed by
the board, that direct and govern the implementation of the stress testing framework in a
comprehensive manner. Policies, along with procedures to implement them, should:

    Describe the overall purpose of stress testing activities;
    Articulate consistent and sufficiently rigorous stress testing practices across the entire
     banking organization;
    Indicate stress testing roles and responsibilities, including controls over external resources
     used for any part of stress testing (such as vendors and data providers);
    Describe the frequency and priority with which stress testing activities should be conducted;
    Indicate how stress test results are used, by whom, and outline instances in which remedial
     actions should be taken; and
    Be reviewed and updated as necessary to ensure that stress testing practices remain
     appropriate and keep up to date with changes in market conditions, banking organization
     products and strategies, banking organization exposures and activities, the banking
     organization’s established risk appetite, and industry stress testing practices.

       A stress testing framework should incorporate validation or other type of independent
review to ensure the integrity of stress testing processes and results, consistent with existing
supervisory expectations.12 If a banking organization engages a third party vendor to support


12
  For validation of models and other quantitative tools used for stress testing, see OCC Bulletin 2011-12,
Supervisory Guidance on Model Risk Management (April 4, 2011), available at http://www.occ.gov/news-


                                                        16
                                                                                              SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                                 Attachment

some or all of its stress testing activities, there should be appropriate controls in place to ensure
that those externally developed systems and processes are sound, applied correctly, and
appropriate for the banking organization’s risks, activities, and exposures. Additionally, senior
management should be mindful of any potential inconsistencies, contradictions, or gaps among
its stress tests and assess what actions should be taken as a result. Internal audit should also
provide independent evaluation of the ongoing performance, integrity, and reliability of the stress
testing framework. A banking organization should ensure that its stress tests are documented
appropriately, including a description of the types of stress tests and methodologies used, key
assumptions, results, and suggested actions. Senior management, in consultation with the board,
should review stress testing activities and results with an appropriately critical eye and ensure
that there is objective review of all stress testing processes.

         The results of stress testing analyses should facilitate decision-making by the board and
senior management. Stress testing results should be used to inform the board about alignment of
the banking organization’s risk profile with the board’s chosen risk appetite, as well as inform
operating and strategic decisions. Stress testing results should be considered directly by the
board and senior management for decisions relating to capital and liquidity adequacy, including
capital contingency plans and contingency funding plans. Senior management, in consultation
with the board, should ensure that the stress testing framework includes a sufficient range of
stress testing activities applied at the appropriate levels of the banking organization (i.e., not just
one enterprise-wide stress test). Sound governance also includes using stress testing to consider
the effectiveness of a banking organization’s risk mitigation techniques for various risk types
over their respective time horizons, such as to explore what could occur if expected mitigation
techniques break down during stressful periods.

VII.    Conclusion

        A banking organization should use the principles laid out in this guidance to develop,
implement, and maintain an effective stress testing framework. Such a framework should be
adequately tailored to the banking organization’s size, complexity, risks, exposures, and
activities. A key purpose of stress testing is to explore various types of possible outcomes,
including rare and extreme events and circumstances, assess their impact on the banking
organization, and then evaluate the boundaries up to which the banking organization plans to be
able to withstand such outcomes. Stress testing may be particularly valuable during benign
periods when other measures may not indicate emerging risks.

        While stress testing can provide valuable information regarding potential future outcomes,
similar to any other risk management tool it has limitations and cannot provide absolute certainty
regarding the implications of assumed events and impacts. Furthermore, management should
ensure that stress testing activities are not constrained to reflect past experiences, but instead
consider a broad range of possibilities. No single stress test can accurately estimate the impact
of all stressful events and circumstances; therefore, a banking organization should understand

issuances/bulletins/2011/bulletin-2011-12a.pdf; or Supervision and Regulation Letter SR 11-7, Guidance on Model
Risk Management (April 4, 2011), available at http://www.federalreserve.gov/bankinforeg/srletters/sr1107.pdf.



                                                       17
                                                                                    SR Letter 12-7
                                                                                       Attachment

and account for stress testing limitations and uncertainties, and use stress tests in combination
with other risk management tools to make informed risk management and business decisions.




                                                 18
