1.  FRRS Home
2.  Guidance
3.  
4.  Federal Reserve Guidance on Supervisory Assessment of Capital
    Planning and Positions for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms

Federal Reserve Regulatory Service

Subscribe

-   About the FRRS
-   Regulations
-   Guidance
-   Statutes
-   Subject Index
-   Finding Tables
-   Topic Framework
-   Manuals and Forms

FRRS Search

Submit Search Button

Appendix D: Sensitivity Analysis and Assumptions Management

3-1506.311

CAPITAL—Federal Reserve Guidance on Supervisory Assessment of Capital Planning and Positions for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms

I. Introduction

This guidance provides the Federal Reserve’s core capital planning
expectations for firms subject to the Large Institution Supervision
Coordinating Committee¹ (LISCC) framework and other large and complex
firms, building upon the capital planning requirements included in the
Board’s capital plan rule and stress test rules. This guidance outlines
capital planning expectations² for these firms in the following areas:

-   Governance
-   Risk management
-   Internal controls
-   Capital policy
-   Incorporating stressful conditions and events
-   Estimating impact on capital positions

Further, this guidance provides detailed supervisory expectations on a
firm’s capital planning process in the following appendices:

-   A.

    Use of Models and Other Estimation Approaches

-   B.

    Model Overlays

-   C.

    Use of Benchmark Models in the Capital Planning Process

-   D.

    Sensitivity Analysis and Assumptions Management

-   E.

    Role of the Internal Audit Function in the Capital Planning Process

-   F.

    Capital Policy

-   G.

    Scenario Design

-   H.

    Risk-Weighted Asset (RWA) Projections

-   I.

    Operational Loss Projections

This guidance applies to U.S. bank holding companies and intermediate
holding companies of foreign banking organizations that are either: (i)
subject to the LISCC framework (referred to as a “LISCC Firm”) or (ii)
have total consolidated assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated
total on-balance sheet foreign exposure of $10 billion or more (referred
to in this guidance as a “Large and Complex Firm”).³⁴ The guidance is
effective immediately for bank holding companies that are subject to the
capital plan rule as of January 1, 2016. The guidance will become
effective for intermediate holding companies beginning on January 1,
2017, which is the date on which the capital plan rule applies to these
firms.

The Federal Reserve has different expectations for sound capital
planning and capital adequacy depending on the size, scope of
operations, activities, and systemic importance of a firm. Concurrently
with issuance of this guidance, the Federal Reserve is issuing separate
guidance for U.S. bank holding companies and intermediate holding
companies that have total consolidated assets of at least $50 billion
but less than $250 billion, have consolidated total on-balance sheet
foreign exposure of less than $10 billion, and are not otherwise subject
to the LISCC framework (referred to as a “Large and Noncomplex Firm”).
This separate guidance clarifies that expectations for LISCC Firms and
Large and Complex Firms are higher than the expectations for Large and
Noncomplex Firms.

Within the group of firms subject to this guidance, the Federal Reserve
has significantly heightened expectations for the LISCC Firms. This
guidance sets forth only minimum expectations, and LISCC Firms are
consistently expected to exceed those minimum standards and have the
most sophisticated, comprehensive, and robust capital planning practices
for all of their portfolios and activities.

II. Regulatory Requirements for Capital Positions and Planning

Sound capital planning for any firm begins with adherence to all
applicable rules and regulations relating to capital adequacy. Three
Federal Reserve regulations form the basis of the regulatory framework
for capital positions and capital planning:

-   1.

    Regulation Q (12 CFR part 217 [at 3-2100]), Capital Adequacy
    Requirements for Board-regulated Institutions;

-   2.

    Regulation YY (12 CFR part 252 [subparts E and F at 4-787 and
    4-788]), Enhanced Prudential Standards; and

-   3.

    Section 225.8 of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.8 [at 4-017.5], also known
    as the capital plan rule).

Regulation Q establishes minimum capital requirements and overall
capital adequacy standards for Federal Reserve-regulated institutions.
Among other things, Regulation YY establishes capital stress testing
requirements for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets
of $50 billion or more, including requirements to participate in the
Federal Reserve’s annual supervisory stress test and conduct their own
internal capital stress tests. The capital plan rule establishes general
capital planning requirements for a bank holding company with total
consolidated assets of $50 billion or more and requires a bank holding
company to develop an annual capital plan that is approved by its board
of directors.

This guidance provides the Federal Reserve’s core capital planning
expectations for firms subject to this guidance, building upon the
capital planning requirements in the Federal Reserve’s capital plan rule
and stress test rules.⁵

III. Capital Planning Expectations

Capital is central to a firm’s ability to absorb unexpected losses and
continue to lend to creditworthy businesses and consumers. A firm’s
capital planning processes are critical to its financial strength and
resiliency. At LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms, sound capital
planning is also critical to the stability and effective functioning of
the U.S. financial system.

SR letter 12-17/CA letter 12-14, “Consolidated Supervision Framework for
Large Financial Institutions,” outlines core expectations for sound
capital planning for bank holding companies with total consolidated
assets of $50 billion or more. This capital planning and positions
guidance provides additional details around the Federal Reserve’s core
capital planning expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex
Firms, building on the capital planning requirements included in the
capital plan rule and the Board’s stress test rules.⁶ A firm should
maintain a sound capital planning process on an ongoing basis, including
in between submissions of its annual capital plan.⁷

A. Governance

The Federal Reserve expects a firm to have sound governance over its
capital planning process. In general, senior management should establish
the capital planning process and the board of directors should review
and periodically approve that process.

1. Board of directors

A firm’s board of directors is ultimately responsible and accountable
for the firm’s capital-related decisions and for capital planning. The
firm’s capital planning should be consistent with the strategy and risk
appetite set by the board and with the firm’s risk levels, including how
risks at the firm may emerge and evolve under stress. The board must
annually review and approve the firm’s capital plan.⁸

The board should direct senior management to provide a briefing on their
assessment of the firm’s capital adequacy at least quarterly, and
whenever economic, financial, or firm-specific conditions warrant a more
frequent update. The briefing should describe whether current capital
levels and planned capital distributions remain appropriate and
consistent with capital goals (see section III.D, “Capital Policy”). In
their briefing, senior management should also highlight for the board
any problem areas related to capital planning identified by senior
management, internal audit, or supervisors.

The board should hold senior management accountable for providing
sufficient information on the firm’s material risks and exposures to
inform board decisions on capital adequacy and actions, including
capital distributions. Information provided to the board should be
clear, accurate, and timely. The board should direct senior management
to provide this information at least quarterly and whenever economic,
financial, or firm-specific conditions warrant a more frequent update.
The information presented to the board should include consideration of a
number of factors, such as:

-   macroeconomic conditions and relevant market events;
-   current capital levels relative to budgets and forecasts;
-   post-stress capital goals and targeted real time capital levels (see
    section III.D, “Capital Policy”);
-   enterprise-wide and line-of-business performance;
-   expectations from stakeholders (including shareholders, regulators,
    investors, lenders, counterparties, and rating agencies);
-   potential sources of stress to the firm’s operating performance; and
-   risks that may emerge only under stressful conditions.

After receiving the information, the board should be in a position to
understand the major drivers of the firm’s projections under a range of
conditions, including baseline and stress scenarios.

The board should direct senior management to provide information about
the firm’s estimation approaches, model overlays, and assessments of
model performance (see Appendix A: Use of Models and Other Estimation
Approaches; Appendix B: Model Overlays; and Appendix C: Use of Benchmark
Models in the Capital Planning Process). The board should also receive
information about uncertainties around projections of capital needs or
limitations within the firm’s capital planning process to understand the
impact of these weaknesses on the process. This information should
include key assumptions and the analysis of sensitivity of a firm’s
projections to changes in the assumptions (see Appendix D: Sensitivity
Analysis and Assumptions Management). The board should incorporate
uncertainties in projections and limitations in the firm’s capital
planning process into its decisions on capital adequacy and capital
actions. It should also review and approve mitigating steps to address
capital planning process weaknesses.

The board should direct senior management to establish sound controls
for the entire capital planning process. The board should approve
policies related to capital planning, and review them annually. The
board should also approve capital planning activities and strategies.
The board of directors should maintain an accurate record of its
meetings pertaining to the firm’s capital planning process.

2. Senior management

Senior management should direct staff to implement board-approved
capital policies, capital planning activities, and strategies in an
effective manner. Senior management should make informed recommendations
to the board regarding the firm’s capital planning and capital adequacy,
including post-stress capital goals and capital distribution decisions.
Senior management’s proposed capital goals and capital distributions
should have analytical support and take into account the expectations of
important stakeholders, including share holders, rating agencies,
counterparties, depositors, creditors, and supervisors.

Senior management should design and oversee the implementation of the
firm’s capital planning process; identify and assess material risks and
use appropriate firm-specific scenarios in the firm’s stress test;
monitor and assess capital planning practices to identify limitations
and uncertainties and develop remediation plans; understand key
assumptions used throughout a firm’s capital planning process and assess
the sensitivity of the firm’s projections to those assumptions (see
Appendix D: Sensitivity Analysis and Assumptions Management); and review
the capital planning process at least quarterly.

Senior management should establish a process for independent review of
the firm’s capital planning process, including the elements outlined in
this guidance. The independent review process should be designed to
identify the weaknesses and limitations of the capital planning process
and the potential impact of those weaknesses on the process. Senior
management should also develop remediation plans for any identified
weaknesses affecting the reliability of capital planning results. Both
the specific identified weaknesses and the remediation plans should be
reported to the board of directors in a timely manner.

Differences in Expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,
as Compared to Large and Noncomplex Firms

The Federal Reserve expects senior management of a LISCC Firm and a
Large and Complex Firm to have a higher level of engagement in the
capital planning process than the senior management of a Large and
Noncomplex Firm. Specifically, senior management of a LISCC Firm and a
Large and Complex Firm should review the capital planning process
quarterly, whereas senior management of a Large and Noncomplex Firm
should review the capital planning process at least semi-annually.

B. Risk Management

A firm should have a risk-management infrastructure that appropriately
identifies, measures, and assesses material risks and provides a strong
foundation for capital planning.⁹ This risk-management infrastructure
should be supported by comprehensive policies and procedures, clear and
well-established roles and responsibilities, and strong and independent
internal controls. In addition, the risk-management infrastructure
should be built upon sound information technology and management
information systems. The Federal Reserve’s supervisory assessment of the
sufficiency of a firm’s capital planning process will depend in large
part on the effectiveness of the firm’s risk-management infrastructure
and the strength of its process to identify unique risks under normal
and stressful conditions, as well as on the strength of its overall
governance and internal control processes.

1. Risk identification and assessment process

A firm’s risk-identification process should include a comprehensive
assessment of risks stemming from its unique business activities and
associated exposures. The assessment should include on-balance sheet
assets and liabilities, off-balance sheet exposures, vulnerability of
the firm’s earnings, and other major firm-specific determinants of
capital adequacy under normal and stressed conditions. This assessment
should also capture those risks that only materialize or become apparent
under stressful conditions.

The specifics of the risk-identification process will differ across
firms given differences in organizational structure, business
activities, and size and complexity of operations. However, the
risk-identification process at all firms subject to this guidance should
be dynamic, inclusive, and comprehensive, and drive the firm’s capital
adequacy analysis. A firm should:

-   evaluate material risks across the enterprise to ensure
    comprehensive risk capture on an ongoing basis;
-   establish a formal risk-identification process and evaluate material
    risks at least quarterly;
-   actively monitor its material risks; and
-   use identified material risks to inform key aspects of the firm’s
    capital planning, including the development of stress scenarios, the
    assessment of the adequacy of post-stress capital levels, and the
    appropriateness of potential capital actions in light of the firm’s
    capital objectives.

A firm should be able to demonstrate how material risks are accounted
for in its capital planning process. For risks not well captured by
scenario analysis, the firm should clearly articulate how the risks are
otherwise captured and addressed in the capital planning process and
factored into decisions about capital needs and distributions. The firm
should also be able to identify risks that may be difficult to quantify
and explain how these risks are addressed in the capital planning
process. The firm should appropriately segment risks beyond generic
categories such as credit risk, market risk, and operational risk.

The Federal Reserve expects a firm to seek input from multiple
stakeholders across the organization (for example, senior management,
finance and risk professionals, front office and line-of-business
leadership) in identifying its material risks. In addition, a firm
should update its risk assessment at least quarterly to reflect changes
in exposures, business activities, and its broader operating
environment.

2. Risk measurement and risk materiality

A firm should have a sound risk-measurement process that informs senior
management about the size and risk characteristics of exposures and
business activities under both normal and stressful operating
conditions. A firm is generally expected to use quantitative approaches
supported by expert judgment, as appropriate, for risk measurement.

Identified weaknesses, limitations, biases, and assumptions in the
firm’s risk-measurement processes should be assessed for their potential
impact on the integrity of a firm’s capital planning process (see
Appendix D: Sensitivity Analysis and Assumptions Management). A firm
should have a process in place for determining materiality in the
context of material risk identification and capital planning. This
process should include a sound analysis of relevant quantitative and
qualitative considerations, including, but not limited to, the firm’s
risk profile, size, and complexity, and their effects on the firm’s
projected regulatory capital ratios in stressed scenarios.¹⁰

A firm should identify how and where its material risks are accounted
for within the capital planning process. The firm should be able to
specify material risks that are captured in its scenario design, the
approaches used to estimate the impact on capital, and the risk drivers
associated with each material risk.

As part of its risk-measurement processes, a firm should identify and
measure risk that is inherent to its business practices and closely
assess the reliability of assumptions about risk reduction resulting
from risk transfer or risk mitigation techniques (see Appendix D:
Sensitivity Analysis and Assumptions Management). Specifically, the firm
should critically assess the enforceability and effectiveness of any
guarantees, netting, and collateral agreements. Assumptions about
accessibility and valuation of collateral exposures should also be
closely reviewed for reliability given the likelihood that asset values
will change rapidly in a stressed market.

Differences in Expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,
as Compared to Large and Noncomplex Firms

The Federal Reserve expects a LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm to
have a more formal risk-identification process with quarterly updates,
identify difficult-to-quantify risks, segment risks at more granular
levels, involve multiple stakeholders across the firm in identifying
material risks, critically assess risk transfer techniques, and use
quantitative approaches supported by expert judgment for risk
management. In contrast, the Federal Reserve expects a Large and
Noncomplex Firm to have a less formal risk-identification process, has
lower expectations regarding identification of difficult-to-quantify
risks, segmentation, engagement with stakeholders, and assessment of
risk transfer techniques, and provides the option for a Large and
Noncomplex Firm to use either qualitative or quantitative risk
measurement approaches for risk management.

C. Internal Controls

A firm should have a sound internal control framework that helps ensure
that all aspects of the capital planning process are functioning as
designed and result in sound assessments of the firm’s capital needs.
The framework should include:

-   an independent internal audit function;
-   independent review and validation practices; and
-   integrated management information systems, effective reporting, and
    change control processes.

A firm’s internal control framework should support its entire capital
planning process, including: the sufficiency of and adherence to
policies and procedures; risk identification, measurement, and
management practices and systems used to produce input data; and the
models, management overlays, and other methods used to generate inputs
to post-stress capital estimates. Any part of the capital planning
process that relies on manual procedures should receive heightened
attention. The internal control framework should also assess the
aggregation and reporting process used to produce reports to senior
management and to the board of directors and the process used to support
capital adequacy recommendations to the board.

In addition, the control framework should include an evaluation of the
firm’s process for integrating the separate components of the capital
planning process at the enterprise-wide level.

1. Comprehensive policies, procedures, and documentation for capital
planning

A firm should have policies and procedures that support consistent and
repeatable capital planning processes.¹¹ Policies and procedures should
describe the capital planning process in a manner that informs internal
and external stakeholders of the firm’s expectations for internal
practices, documentation, and business line controls. The firm’s
documentation should be sufficient to provide relevant information to
those making decisions about capital actions. The documentation should
also allow parties unfamiliar with a process or model to understand
generally how it operates, as well as its main limitations, key
assumptions, and uncertainties.

Policies and procedures should also clearly identify roles and
responsibilities of staff involved in capital planning and provide
accountability for those responsible for the capital planning process. A
firm should also have an established process for policy exceptions. Such
exceptions should be approved by the appropriate level of management
based upon the gravity of the exception. Policies and procedures should
reflect the firm’s current practices, and be reviewed and updated as
appropriate, but at least annually. A firm should maintain evidence that
management and staff are adhering to policies and procedures in
practice.

A firm’s documentation should cover key aspects of its capital planning
process, including its risk-identification, measurement and management
practices and infrastructure; methods to estimate inputs to post-stress
capital ratios; the process used to aggregate estimates and project
capital needs; the process for making capital decisions; and governance
and internal control practices. A firm’s capital planning documentation
should include detailed information to enable independent review of key
assumptions, stress testing outputs, and capital action recommendations.

2. Model validation and independent review of estimation approaches

Models used in the capital planning process should be reviewed for
suitability for their intended uses. A firm should give particular
consideration to the validity of models used for calculating post-stress
capital positions. In particular, models designed for ongoing business
activities may be inappropriate for estimating losses, revenue, and
expenses under stressed conditions. If a firm identifies weaknesses or
uncertainties in a model, the firm should make adjustments to model
output if the findings would otherwise result in the material
understatement of capital needs (see Appendix B: Model Overlays). If the
deficiencies are critical, the firm should restrict the use of the
model, apply overlays, or avoid using the model entirely.

A firm should independently validate or otherwise conduct effective
challenge of models used in internal capital planning, consistent with
supervisory guidance on model risk management.¹² The model review and
validation process should include an evaluation of conceptual soundness
of models and ongoing monitoring of the model performance. The firm’s
validation staff should have the necessary technical competencies,
sufficient stature within the organization, and appropriate independence
from model developers and business areas to provide a critical and
unbiased evaluation of the estimation approaches.

A firm should maintain an inventory of all estimation approaches used in
the capital planning process, including models used to produce
projections or estimates used by the models that generate final loss,
revenue, expense, and capital projections.¹³ Material models should
receive greater attention (see Appendix C: Use of Benchmark Models in
the Capital Planning Process).¹⁴ The intensity and frequency of
validation work should be a function of the importance of those models
in generating estimates of post-stress capital.

Not all models can be fully validated prior to use in capital planning.
However, a firm should conduct a conceptual soundness review of all
models prior to their use in capital planning. If such a conceptual
soundness review is not possible, the absence of that review should be
made transparent to users of model output and the firm should determine
whether the use of compensating controls (such as conservative
adjustments) are warranted.

Further, a firm should treat output from models for which there are
model risk-management shortcomings with caution. In addition, a firm
should have compensating controls for known model uncertainties and
apply well supported conservative adjustments to model results, as
appropriate.

A firm should ensure that benchmark or challenger models that contribute
to post-stress capital estimates or are otherwise used explicitly in the
capital planning process are identified and subject to validation (see
Appendix C: Use of Benchmark Models in the Capital Planning Process).

3. Management information systems and change control processes

A firm should have internal controls that ensure the integrity of
reported results and that make certain the firm is identifying,
documenting, reviewing, and tracking all material changes to the capital
planning process and its components. The firm should ensure that such
controls exist at all levels of the capital planning process. Specific
controls should ensure:

-   sufficiently sound management information systems to support the
    firm’s capital planning process;
-   comprehensive reconciliation and data integrity processes for key
    reports;
-   the accurate and complete presentation of capital planning process
    results, including a description of adjustments made to compensate
    for identified weaknesses; and
-   that information provided to senior management and the board is
    accurate and timely.

Many of the processes used to assess capital adequacy, including models,
data, and management information systems, are tightly integrated and
interdependent. As a result, a firm should ensure consistent change
control oversight across the entire firm, in line with existing
supervisory guidance.¹⁵ A firm should establish and maintain a policy
describing minimum internal control standards for managing change in
capital planning process policies and procedures, model development,
information technology, and data. Control standards for these areas
should address risk, testing, authorization and approval, timing of
implementation, post-installation verification, and recovery, as
applicable.

4. Internal audit function

Internal audit should play a key role in evaluating capital planning and
the elements described in this guidance to ensure that the entire
process is functioning in accordance with supervisory expectations and
the firm’s policies and procedures. Internal audit should review the
manner in which deficiencies are identified, tracked, and remediated.
Furthermore, internal audit should ensure appropriate independent review
and challenge is occurring at all key levels within the capital planning
process.

As discussed further in Appendix E: Role of the Internal Audit Function
in the Capital Planning Process, internal audit staff should have the
appropriate competence and influence to identify and escalate key
issues. All deficiencies, limitations, weaknesses, and uncertainties
identified by the internal audit function that relate to the firm’s
capital planning process should be reported to senior management, and
material deficiencies should be reported to the board of directors (or
the audit committee of the board) in a timely manner.¹⁶

Differences in Expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,
as Compared to Large and Noncomplex Firms

The Federal Reserve expects a LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm to
complete a conceptual soundness review of all models prior to use,
maintain comprehensive documentation of its capital planning process,
and have compensating controls for known model uncertainties. In
contrast, the Federal Reserve expects a Large and Noncomplex Firm to
make an effort to review its material models prior to use; further, the
Federal Reserve has lower expectations regarding documentation and
compensating controls.

In addition, the Federal Reserve expects a LISCC Firm and a Large and
Complex Firm to subject benchmark models to validation, to the extent
the models contribute to post-stress capital estimates. In contrast, a
Large and Noncomplex Firm is not expected to use benchmark models in its
capital planning process.

The Federal Reserve expects that the change control process of a LISCC
Firm and a Large and Complex Firm would take into account recovery
plans, whereas the Federal Reserve does not have this expectation for
Large and Noncomplex Firms. Last, the Federal Reserve expects a LISCC
Firm and a Large and Complex Firm to more clearly integrate the separate
components of the capital planning process at the enterprise-wide level,
as compared to a Large and Noncomplex Firm.

D. Capital Policy

A capital policy is a firm’s written assessment of the principles and
guidelines used for capital planning, issuance, usage, and
distributions.¹⁷ This includes internal post-stress capital goals (as
discussed in more detail below and in Appendix F: Estimating Impact on
Capital Positions) and real-time targeted capital levels; guidelines for
dividend payments and stock repurchases; strategies for addressing
potential capital shortfalls; and internal governance responsibilities
and procedures for the capital policy. The capital policy must be
approved by the firm’s board of directors or a designated committee of
the board.¹⁸

The capital policy should be reevaluated at least annually and revised
as necessary to address changes to the firm’s business strategy, risk
appetite, organizational structure, governance structure, post-stress
capital goals, real-time targeted capital levels, regulatory
environment, and other factors potentially affecting the firm’s capital
adequacy.

A capital policy should describe the firm’s capital adequacy
decision-making process, including the decision-making process for
common stock dividend payments or stock repurchases.¹⁹ The policy should
incorporate actionable protocols, including governance and escalation,
in the event a post-stress capital goal, real-time targeted capital
level, or other early warning metric is breached.

The policy should also include elements such as:

-   roles and responsibilities of key parties, including those
    responsible for producing analytical materials, reviewing the
    analysis, and making capital distribution recommendations and
    decisions;
-   factors and key metrics that influence the size, timing, and form of
    capital actions, and the analytical materials used in making capital
    action decisions; and
-   the frequency with which capital adequacy will be evaluated and the
    analysis that will be considered in the determination of capital
    adequacy, including the specific circumstances that activate the
    contingency plan.

1. Post-stress capital goals

A firm should establish post-stress capital goals that are aligned with
its risk appetite and risk profile, its ability to act as a financial
intermediary in times of stress, and the expectations of internal and
external stakeholders. Post-stress capital goals should be calibrated
based on the firm’s own internal analysis, independent of regulatory
capital requirements, of the minimum level of post-stress capital the
firm has deemed necessary to remain a going concern over the planning
horizon. A firm should also determine targets for real-time capital
ratios and capital levels that ensure that capital ratios and levels
would not fall below the firm’s internal post-stress capital goals
(including regulatory minimums) under stressful conditions at any point
over the planning horizon. For more details, see Appendix F: Capital
Policy.

Differences in Expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,
as Compared to Large and Noncomplex Firms

The Federal Reserve expects the capital policy of a LISCC Firm and a
Large and Complex Firm to cover a broader set of topics, including roles
and responsibilities of key parties and metrics influencing capital
distributions, than the capital policies of a Large and Noncomplex Firm.
See Appendix F: Capital Policy, for additional differentiated
expectations for a firm’s capital policy.

E. Incorporating Stressful Conditions and Events

As part of its capital planning process, a firm should incorporate
appropriately stressful conditions and events that could adversely
affect the firm’s capital adequacy into its capital planning. As part of
its capital plan, a firm must use at least one scenario that stresses
the specific vulnerabilities of the firm’s activities and associated
risks, including those related to the company’s capital adequacy and
financial condition.²⁰ More generally, as part of its ongoing capital
adequacy assessment, a firm should use multiple scenarios to assess a
broad range of risks, stressful, conditions, or events that could impact
the firm’s capital adequacy.

1. Scenario design

A firm should develop complete firm-specific scenarios that focus on the
specific vulnerabilities of the firm’s risk profile and operations. The
scenario design process should be directly linked to the firm’s
risk-identification process and associated risk assessment. For those
aspects of risks not well captured by scenario analysis, the firm should
clearly articulate how the risks are otherwise captured and addressed in
the capital planning process and factored into decisions about capital
needs and distributions.

In developing its scenarios, the firm should recognize that multiple
stressful conditions or events can occur simultaneously or in rapid
succession. The firm should also consider the cumulative effects of
stressful conditions, including possible interactions among the
conditions and second-order or “knock-on” effects.

When identifying and developing the specific set of stressful conditions
to capture in its stress scenarios, the firm should engage a broad range
of internal stakeholders, such as risk experts, business managers, and
senior management, to ensure the process comprehensively takes into
account the full range of vulnerabilities specific to the firm.

2. Scenario narrative

A firm’s stress scenario should be supported by a detailed narrative
describing how the scenario addresses the firm’s particular material
risks and vulnerabilities, and how the paths of the scenario variables
relate to each other. The narrative should describe the key attributes
of the scenario, including any stress events in the scenario, such as
counterparty defaults, large operational risk related events, and
ratings downgrades. For more details, see Appendix G: Scenario Design.

Differences in Expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,
as Compared to Large and Noncomplex Firms

The Federal Reserve has elevated expectations for a LISCC Firm and a
Large and Complex Firm relating to scenario design. Specifically, the
Federal Reserve expects a LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm to
develop a scenario that is directly linked to the firm’s
risk-identification process and its risk assessment, and engage a broad
range of stakeholders. In contrast, a Large and Noncomplex Firm is
expected to either develop a firm-specific scenario or adjust the
Federal Reserve’s scenario to reflect the firm’s own risk profile.

In addition, a LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm should use
multiple firm-specific scenarios as part of its ongoing efforts to
assess a broad range of risks, stressful conditions, or events that
could impact the firm’s capital adequacy. A Large and Noncomplex Firm is
not expected to use multiple firm-specific scenarios in its capital
adequacy assessment.

Further, the Federal Reserve has higher expectations for the scenario
narrative of a LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm and expects these
firms to articulate how risks not captured by scenario analysis are
otherwise addressed in the capital planning process.

F. Estimating Impact on Capital Positions

A firm should employ estimation approaches that allow it to project the
impact on capital positions of various types of stressful conditions and
events. The firm’s stress testing practices should capture the potential
increase in losses or decrease in pre-provision net revenue (PPNR) that
could result from the firm’s risks, exposures, and activities under
stressful scenarios. A firm should estimate losses, revenues, expenses,
and capital using a sound method that relates macroeconomic and other
risk drivers to its estimates. The firm should be able to identify the
manner in which key variables, factors, and events in a scenario affect
losses, revenue, expenses, and capital over the planning horizon.
Projections of losses and PPNR should be done at a level of granularity
that allows for the appropriate differentiation of risk drivers, while
balancing practical constraints such as data limitations (see Appendix
A: Use of Models and Other Estimation Approaches and Appendix D:
Sensitivity Analysis and Assumptions Management).

The balance sheet projection process should establish and incorporate
the relationships among revenue, expense, and on- and off-balance sheet
exposures under stressful conditions, including new originations,
purchases, sales, maturities, prepayments, defaults, and other borrower
and depositor behavior considerations. A firm should also ensure that
changes in its asset mix and resulting RWAs are consistent with PPNR and
loss estimates. A firm should be able to identify key risk drivers,
variables or factors in the scenarios that generate increased losses,
reduced revenues, and changes to the balance sheet and RWAs over the
planning horizon (see Appendix H: Risk-Weighted Asset (RWA)
Projections).

1. Loss estimation

A firm should estimate losses using a sound method that relates
macroeconomic and other risk drivers to losses. A firm should
empirically demonstrate that a strong relationship exists between the
variables used in loss estimation and prior losses. When using
supervisory scenarios, a firm should project additional scenario
variables beyond those included in the supervisory scenarios if the
additional variables would be more directly linked to particular
portfolios or exposures. A firm should include a variety of loss types
in its stress tests based on the firm’s exposures and activities. Loss
types should include retail and wholesale credit risk losses, credit and
fair value losses on securities, market and default risk on trading and
counterparty exposures, and operational-risk losses.

a. Credit risk losses on loans and securities

A firm should develop sound methods to estimate credit losses under
stress that take into account the type and size of portfolios, risk
characteristics, and data availability. A firm should understand the key
characteristics of its loss estimation approach. In addition, a firm’s
reserves for each quarter of the planning horizon, including the last
quarter, should be sufficient to cover estimated loan losses consistent
with generally accepted accounting standards. A firm should account for
the timing of loss recognition in setting the appropriate level of
reserves at the end of each quarter of the planning horizon.

A firm should test credit-sensitive securities for potential
other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) regardless of current impairment
status. The threshold for determining OTTI for structured products
should be based on cash-flow analysis and credit analysis of underlying
obligors.

b. Fair-value losses on loans and securities

As applicable, a firm should project changes in the fair value of loans
and available-for-sale securities (and impaired held-to-maturity
securities). The projections should be based on relevant risk drivers,
such as changes in credit spreads and interest rates. The firm should
ensure that the risk drivers appropriately capture underlying risk
characteristics of the loan or security, including duration and the
credit risk of the underlying collateral or issuer.

c. Market and default risks on trading and counterparty exposures

A firm should project how the stress affects mark-to-market values and
the default risk of its trading and counterparty exposures. A firm
should capture all of its trading positions and counterparty exposures,
identify all relevant risk factors, and employ sound revaluation
methods. As part of its scenario analysis, as described in greater
detail in section III.E of this guidance “Incorporating Stressful
Conditions,” a firm should use scenarios that severely stress the firm’s
mark-to-market positions and account for the firm’s idiosyncratic risks.

d. Operational-risk losses

A firm should maintain a sound process for estimating operational risk
losses in its capital planning process. Operational losses can rise from
various sources, including inadequate or failed internal processes,
people, and systems, or from external events (see Appendix I:
Operational Loss Projections).

A firm should have a structured, transparent, and repeatable framework
in place to develop credible loss projections under stress that takes
into account the differences in loss characteristics of different types
of operational loss events. The approaches used to project operational
losses should be well supported and include scenario analysis.

2. PPNR

In projecting PPNR, a firm should take into account not only its current
positions, but also how its activities, business strategy, and revenue
drivers may evolve over time under the varying circumstances and
operating environments. The firm should ensure that the various PPNR
components, including net interest income, non-interest income and
non-interest expense, and other key items projected by the firm such as
balance sheet positions, RWA, and losses, are projected in a manner that
is internally consistent.

The ability to effectively project net interest income is dependent upon
the firm’s ability to identify and aggregate current positions and their
attributes; project future changes in accruing balances due to a variety
of factors; and appropriately translate the impact of these factors and
relevant interest rates into net interest income based on assumed
conditions. Accordingly, a firm’s current portfolio of interest-bearing
assets and liabilities should serve as the foundation for its
forward-looking estimates of net interest income. Beginning positions,
positions added during the planning horizon, and the expected behavior
of those positions are critical determinants of net interest income. A
firm should have the ability to capture these dynamic relationships
under its stress scenarios, and should ensure all related assumptions
are well supported (see Appendix D: Sensitivity Analysis and Assumptions
Management).

Non-interest income is derived from a diverse set of sources, including
fees, certain realized gains and losses, and mark-to-market income.
Non-interest income generally is more susceptible to rapid changes than
net interest income, especially if certain market measures move sharply.
A firm’s projections should incorporate material factors that could
affect the generation of non-interest income under stress, including the
firm’s business strategy, the competitive landscape, and changing
regulations.

Non-interest expenses include both expenses that are likely to vary with
certain stressful conditions and those that are not. Projections of
expenses that are closely linked to revenues or balances should vary
with projected changes in revenue or balance sheet levels. Non-interest
expense should be projected using either quantitative estimation methods
or well-supported judgment, depending on the underlying drivers of the
expense item.

3. Aggregating estimation results

A firm should have well-documented processes for projecting the size and
composition of on- and off-balance sheet positions and RWAs over the
planning horizon that feed in to the wider capital planning process (see
Appendix H: Risk-Weighted Asset (RWA) Projections).

A firm should have a consistently executed process for aggregating
enterprise-wide stress test projections of losses, revenues, and
expenses, including estimating on- and off-balance sheet exposures, and
RWAs, and for calculating post-stress capital positions and ratios. The
aggregation system should be able to bring together data and information
across business lines, portfolios, and risk types and should include the
data systems and sources, data reconciliation points, data quality
checks, and appropriate internal control points to ensure accurate and
consistent projection of financial data within enterprise-wide scenario
analysis. Internal processes for aggregating projections from all
relevant systems and regulatory templates should be identified and
documented. In addition, the beginning points for projections and
scenario variables should align with the end of the historical reference
period.

Differences in Expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,
as Compared to Large and Noncomplex Firms

The Federal Reserve has elevated expectations for a LISCC Firm and a
Large and Complex Firm regarding its use of models in loss and revenue
estimation. As noted above, a LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm is
generally expected to use quantitative approaches in estimating losses
and PPNR, whereas a Large and Noncomplex Firm may use either
quantitative or qualitative approaches. In addition, a LISCC Firm and a
Large and Complex Firms are expected to project losses and PPNR at a
greater level of granularity and are held to higher expectations
regarding their estimations in other areas, including with respect to
setting reserves, modeling operational risk, and identifying key risk
drivers.

In addition, a LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm are held to
expectations for estimation approaches for certain exposures, such as
fair value option loans and market risks for trading exposures, that do
not apply to a Large and Noncomplex Firm.

See Appendix A: Use of Models and Other Estimation Approaches, for
additional differentiated expectations for a firm’s estimation
approaches.

Appendix A: Use of Models and Other Estimation Approaches

Projections of losses and PPNR under various scenarios are key
components of enterprise-wide stress testing and capital planning. The
firm should ensure that its projection approaches, including any
specific processes or methodologies employed, are well supported,
transparent, and repeatable over time.

A firm should generally use models or other quantitative methods,
supported by expert judgment as appropriate, as the basis for generating
projections. In limited instances, such as in cases of new products or
businesses, or where insufficient data are available to support modeled
approaches, qualitative approaches may be appropriate in lieu of
quantitative methods to generate projections for those specific areas.

A firm should adhere to supervisory guidance on model risk management
(SR-11-7) when using models, and should have sound internal controls
around both quantitative and qualitative approaches.

1. Quantitative approaches

Firms use a range of quantitative approaches for capital planning. The
type and level of sophistication of any quantitative approach should be
appropriate for the type and materiality of the portfolio or activity
for which it is used and the granularity and length of available data.
The firm should also ensure that the quantitative approach selected
generates credible estimates that are consistent with assumed scenario
conditions.

A firm should separately estimate losses and PPNR for portfolios or
business lines that are either sensitive to different risk drivers or
sensitive to risk drivers in a markedly different way, particularly
during periods of stress. For instance, losses on commercial and
industrial loans and commercial real estate (CRE) loans are, in part,
driven by different risk factors, with the path of property values
having a pronounced effect on CRE loan losses, but not necessarily on
other commercial loans. Similarly, although falling property values
affect both income-producing CRE loans and construction loans, the
effect often differs materially due to structural differences between
the two portfolios. Such differences can become more pronounced during
periods of stress.

A firm should have a well-supported variable selection process that is
based on economic intuition, in addition to statistical significance
where applicable. The firm should provide a clear rationale for the
macroeconomic variables or other risk drivers chosen for all
quantitative approaches, including why certain variables or risk drivers
were not selected.

A firm should estimate losses and PPNR at a sufficiently disaggregated
level within a given portfolio or business line to capture observed
variations in risk characteristics (for example, credit score or
loan-to-value ratio ranges for loan portfolios) and performance across
sub-portfolios or segments under changing conditions and environments.
Loss and PPNR estimates should also be sufficiently granular to capture
changing exposure levels over the planning horizon. However, in
assessing the appropriate level of granularity of segments, a firm
should factor in issues such as the availability of data or the costs
and benefits of model complexity. For example, when projecting losses
for a more diverse portfolio with a range of borrower risk
characteristics and observed historical performance, firms should
segment the portfolio more finely based on key risk attributes unless
the segments lack sufficient data observations to produce reliable model
estimates.

a. Use of data

A firm should use internal data to estimate losses and PPNR as part of
its enterprise-wide stress testing and capital planning practices.²¹
However, it may be appropriate for a firm to use external data if
internal data limitations exist as a result of systems limitations,
acquisitions, or new products, or other factors that may cause internal
data to be less relevant for developing stressed estimates. If a firm
uses external data to estimate its losses or PPNR, the firm should
ensure that the external data reasonably approximate underlying risk
characteristics of the firm’s portfolios or business lines. Further, the
firm should make adjustments to estimation methods or outputs, as
appropriate, to account for identified differences in risk
characteristics and performance reflected in internal and external data.
In addition, firms should relate their projections under stress
scenarios to the characteristics of their assets and activities
described in their internal data.

A firm should generally include all available data in its analysis,
unless the firm no longer engages in a line of business or its
activities have changed such that the firm is no longer exposed to a
particular risk. The firm should not selectively exclude data based on
the changing nature of the ongoing business or activity without strong
empirical support. For example, excluding certain loans only on the
basis that they were underwritten to standards that no longer apply or
on the basis that the loans were acquired by the firm is not sound
practice.

b. Use of vendor models²²

A firm should have processes to confirm that any vendor or other
third-party models it uses are sound, appropriate for the given task,
and implemented properly. A firm should clearly outline limitations and
uncertainties associated with vendor models.

Vendor model management includes having an appropriate vendor selection
process, assigning staff to oversee and maintain the vendor
relationships, and ensuring that there is sufficient documentation of
vendor models. A firm should also confirm that vendor models have been
sufficiently tested and that data used by the vendor are appropriate for
use at the firm. The firm should also establish key measures for
evaluating vendor model performance and tracking those measures whenever
those vendor models are used, as well as assess vendor models (including
to incorporate any relevant updates or changes). Vendor models should be
subject to validation processes similar to those employed for models
developed internally.

2. Assessing model performance

A firm should use measures to assess model performance that are
appropriate for the type of model being used. The firm should outline
how each performance measure is evaluated and used. A firm should also
assess the sensitivity of material model estimates to key assumptions
and use benchmarking to assess reliability of model estimates (see
Appendix C: Use of Benchmark Models in the Capital Planning Process and
Appendix D: Sensitivity Analysis and Assumptions Management).

A firm should employ multiple performance measures and tests, as
generally no single measure or test is sufficient to assess model
performance. This is particularly the case when the models are used to
project outcomes in stressful circumstances. For example, assessing
model performance through out-of-sample and out-of-time back testing may
be challenging due to the short length of observed data series or the
paucity of realized stressed outcomes against which to measure the model
performance. When using multiple approaches, the firm should have a
consistent framework for evaluating the results of different approaches
and supporting rationale for why it chose the methods and estimates
ultimately used.

A firm should provide supporting information about models to users of
the model output, including descriptions of known measurement problems,
simplifying assumptions, model limitations, or other ways in which the
model exhibits weaknesses in capturing the relationships being modeled.
Providing such qualitative information is critical when certain
quantitative criteria or tests measuring model performance are lacking.

3. Qualitative approaches

A qualitative approach to project losses and PPNR may be appropriate in
limited cases where severe data or other limitations preclude the
development of reliable quantitative approaches. The firm should
document why such an approach is reliable for generating projections and
is justified based on business need.

When using a qualitative approach, the firm should substantiate
assumptions and estimates using analysis of current and past risk
drivers and performance, internal risk identification, forward-looking
risk assessments, external analysis or other available information. The
firm should conduct an initial and ongoing assessment of the performance
and viability of the qualitative approach. The processes used in
qualitative projection approaches should be transparent and repeatable.
The firm should also clearly document qualitative approaches and key
assumptions used.

Qualitative approaches should be subject to independent review, although
the review may differ from the review of quantitative approaches or
models. The level of independent review should be commensurate with:

-   the materiality of the portfolio or business line for which the
    qualitative approach is used;
-   the impact of the approach’s output on the overall capital results;
    and
-   the complexity of the approach.

Firm staff conducting the independent review of the qualitative
approaches should not be involved in developing, implementing or using
the approach. However, this staff can be different than the staff that
conducts validation of quantitative approaches or models.

Differences in Expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,
as Compared to Large and Noncomplex Firms

The Federal Reserve expects a LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm to
base their projections on internal data, include all available data in
its analysis, and estimate losses and PPNR at a disaggregated level. In
contrast, the Federal Reserve expects a Large and Noncomplex Firm to use
either internal or external data in its projections, use all available
data in analyzing material portfolios and business lines, and estimate
losses and PPNR at a less granular level.

In addition, the Federal Reserve has heightened expectations for a LISCC
Firm and a Large and Complex Firm regarding the variable selection
process, controls around the use of vendor models, and measures for
assessing model performance. In addition, the Federal Reserve expects a
LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm to have strong controls related
to all qualitative approaches, whereas the Federal Reserve holds a Large
and Noncomplex Firm to this standard only with respect to material
qualitative approaches.

See section F, “Estimating Impact on Capital Positions,” of the core
guidance document for additional differentiated expectations for a
firm’s estimation approaches.

Appendix B: Model Overlays

A firm may need to rely on overrides or adjustments to model output
(model overlay) to compensate for model, data, or other known
limitations.²³ If well-supported, use of a model overlay can represent a
sound practice.

A model overlay may be appropriate to address cases of identified
weaknesses or limitations in the firm’s models that cannot be otherwise
addressed, or for select portfolios that have unique risks that are not
well captured by the model used for those exposures and activities.²⁴ In
contrast, a model overlay that functions as a general “catch all” buffer
on top of targeted capital levels to account for model weaknesses
generally would not represent sound practice.²⁵

A firm should also avoid extensive reliance on model overlays throughout
its capital planning process, particularly for material portfolios or
where an overlay would have a large effect on projections. Further, a
firm should reduce its reliance on overlays by addressing the underlying
model issue over time. Firms should evaluate the reasons for overlays
and track and analyze overlay performance.

As part of its overall documentation of methodologies used in stress
testing, a firm should document its use of model overlays. Firms must be
able to identify the main factors necessitating the use of an overlay as
well as how the selected overlay addresses those factors. Key
assumptions related to the overlay should be clearly outlined and
consistent with assumed scenario conditions.

1. Process for applying overlays

A firm should establish a consistent firm-wide process for applying
model overlays and for controls around model overlays. The process can
vary by model type and portfolio, but should contain some key elements,
as described below. This process should be outlined in the firm’s
policies and procedures and include a specific exception process for the
use of overlays that do not follow the firm’s standards. As part of
model development, implementation, and use, overlays should be well
documented, supported, and communicated to senior management. Model
overlays should be applied in an appropriate, systematic, and
transparent manner. Model results should also be reported to senior
management with and without overlay adjustments.

Model overlays (including those based solely on expert or management
judgment) should be subject to validation or some other type of
effective challenge.²⁶ Consistent with the materiality principle in
SR-11-7, the intensity of model risk management for overlays should be a
function of the materiality of the model and overlay. Effective
challenge should occur before the model overlay is formally applied, not
on an ex-post basis.

Validation or other type of effective challenge of model overlays may
differ from quantitative model validation. Staff responsible for
effective challenge should not also be setting the overlay itself or
providing significant input to the level or type of overlay. For
example, a committee that develops an overlay should not also be
responsible for the effective challenge of the overlay. In addition,
staff engaging in the effective challenge of model overlays should meet
supervisory expectations relating to incentives, competence, and
influence (as outlined in SR-11-7). Staff conducting effective challenge
should confirm that model overlays are sufficiently conservative to
compensate for model limitations and associated uncertainties in model
estimates. Sensitivity analysis should be used to help quantify the
overlay.

2. Governance of overlays

Overlays and adjustments used by a firm should be reviewed and approved
at a level within the organization commensurate with the materiality of
that overlay or adjustment to overall pro forma results. In general, the
purpose and impact of overlays should be communicated to senior
management in a manner that facilitates an understanding of the issues
by the firm’s senior management. Material overlays to the model—either
in isolation or in combination—should receive a heightened level of
support and scrutiny, up to and including review by the firm’s board of
directors (or a designated committee), in instances where the impact on
pro forma results is material.

Senior management should periodically receive a high-level description
of the use of model overlays. This description should include the number
of models having overlays, whether more material models have overlays,
whether overlays on the whole result in more or less conservative
projections, and the range of the effect of overlays on the model output
(especially for those cases where the overlays produce less conservative
outcomes).

Senior management should be able to independently assess the
reasonableness of using an overlay to capture a particular risk or
compensate for a known limitation. Extensive use of overlays should
trigger discussion as to whether new or improved modeling approaches are
needed to reduce overlay dependency. Signs that the underlying model
needs revision or redevelopment include a high rate of overrides or
overrides that consistently affect model performance.

Differences in Expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,
as Compared to Large and Noncomplex Firms

The Federal Reserve has elevated expectations for a LISCC Firm and a
Large and Complex Firm regarding its use of model overlays. The Federal
Reserve expects a LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firms to use
overlays in sparing and targeted manner, subject overlays to validation
or effective challenge before use, and conduct sensitivity analysis on
an overlay. In contrast, a Large and Noncomplex Firm may use overlays to
a greater extent, should make an effort to validate or conduct effective
challenge for material overlays before use, and is not expected to
conduct sensitivity analysis on an overlay.

In addition, the Federal Reserve expects a LISCC Firm and a Large and
Complex Firm to have strong controls over all overlays, whereas the
Federal Reserve holds a Large and Noncomplex Firm to this standard only
with respect to material qualitative approaches. Last, the Federal
Reserve has heightened expectations for LISCC Firm and a Large and
Complex Firm relating to governance of overlays.

Appendix C: Use of Benchmark Models in the Capital Planning Process

As noted in Appendix A: Use of Models and Other Estimation Approaches, a
firm should use a variety of methods, including benchmarking, to assess
model performance and gain comfort with model estimates. A firm should
use benchmark or challenger models to assess the performance of its
primary models for all material portfolios or to supplement, where
appropriate, the primary models.²⁷ Such models should be used in
conjunction with other aspects of benchmarking, such as comparing model
results to actual market data, internal firm data, data from similar
firms or portfolios, or judgmental estimates by business line experts. A
firm should also use benchmark models during validation as an additional
check on the primary model and its results.

Use of benchmark models is particularly important when primary models
have exhibited significant deficiencies or are still under development.
For instance, a firm’s primary model may use a preferred methodology,
but lack a rich data set to support modeled estimates. In these cases,
the firm should use benchmark models based on different data and
modeling approaches to provide additional checks on primary model
estimates. To the extent that a benchmark model highlights that a
primary model has flaws (e.g., the model is producing output that is
vastly different from experience during prior periods of stress), a firm
should analyze whether it would be appropriate to adjust the model
specification, apply model overlays, or develop different estimation
approaches.

Benchmark models that are developed and run independently of primary
models can be used to more effectively calibrate the firm’s final
estimates. For example, a firm can use benchmark model outputs to
substantiate model overlays, given differences in risk capture between
primary and benchmark models. This type of “triangulation” is especially
suitable for those areas of modeling that present considerable
uncertainty.

Benchmark models used to arrive at the firm’s final estimates should be
subject to model risk management. The intensity and frequency of
validation or other type of effective challenge of benchmark models of a
firm should correspond to the importance of those models in generating
estimates. For example, if the output of a benchmark model is averaged
with primary model results to develop final estimates, or if the
benchmark model is used to develop overlays or overrides for the primary
model, that model should be subject to more intensive validation.

Benchmark models that are used only during the validation process and do
not contribute directly to the firm’s estimates do not need to be
validated. However, a firm should assess the rigor of all benchmark
models and benchmark data used to ensure they provide reasonable
comparisons.

Differences in Expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,
as Compared to Large and Noncomplex Firms

The Federal Reserve expects a LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm to
use benchmark models in capital planning; a Large and Noncomplex Firm is
not held to this expectation.

Appendix D: Sensitivity Analysis and Assumptions Management

A firm should understand the sensitivity of its stress testing estimates
used in capital planning to the various inputs and assumptions. In
addition, sensitivity analysis should be used to test the robustness of
quantitative approaches and models and enhance reporting to the firm’s
senior management, board of directors, and supervisors. A firm should
ensure that it identifies, documents, and manages the use of all key
assumptions used in capital planning.

1. Sensitivity analysis

Understanding and documenting a range of potential outcomes provides
insight into the inherent uncertainty and imprecision around pro forma
results. A firm should assess the sensitivity of its estimates of
capital ratios, losses, revenues, and RWAs to key assumptions and
uncertainty across the entire firm’s projections under stress. Through
this assessment, a firm should calculate a range of potential estimates
based on changes to assumptions and inputs. Examples of assumptions that
generally should be subject to sensitivity analysis include projected
market share, size of the market, cost and flow of deposits, utilization
rate of credit lines, discount rates, or level and composition of
trading assets and RWA.

A firm should also evaluate the sensitivity of models to key assumptions
to evaluate model performance, assess the appropriateness of
assumptions, and understand uncertainty associated with model output.

Sensitivity analysis for capital planning models should be applied in a
manner consistent with the expectations outlined in the Federal
Reserve’s supervisory guidance on model risk management (refer to SR
letter 11-7). Sensitivity analysis should be conducted during model
development and during model validation to provide information about how
models respond to changes in key inputs and assumptions, and how those
models perform in stressful conditions. In addition, sensitivity
analysis should be applied to understand the range of possible results
from vendor-provided models and vendor-provided scenario forecasts that
have opaque or proprietary elements. Sensitivity analysis should be used
to provide information to help users of model output interpret results,
but does not have to result in changes to models or model outputs.
Changes made based on sensitivity analysis should be clearly documented
and justified.

A firm should ensure that the key sensitivities are presented to senior
management and the board in advance of decision-making around the firm’s
capital plan and capital actions. Sensitivity analysis should also be
used to inform senior management, and, as appropriate, the board of
directors about the potential uncertainty associated with models
employed of the firm’s projections under stress.

2. Assumptions management

A firm should clearly document assumptions when estimating losses, PPNR,
and balance sheet, and RWA components. Documentation should include the
rationale and empirical support for assumptions and specifically address
how those assumptions are consistent with and appropriate under the
firm’s scenario conditions.

A firm’s rationale for assumptions used in capital planning should be
consistent with the different effects of scenario conditions, shifts in
portfolio mix, and growth or decline in balances projected over the
planning horizon. For example, the firm should scrutinize and support
any assumptions about sizeable loan growth during a severe economic
downturn.

A firm should generally use conservative assumptions, particularly in
areas of high uncertainty. The firm should provide greater support for
assumptions that appear optimistic or otherwise appear to benefit the
firm (such as loss reduction or revenue enhancement). A firm should not
assume that senior management will be able to realize favorable
strategic actions that cannot be reasonably assured in stress scenarios
given the high level of uncertainty around market conditions. Further, a
firm should not assume that it would have the perfect foresight that
would allow it, for example, to make significant expense reductions in
the first quarter of the forecast horizon in anticipation of the
forthcoming economic deterioration described in the scenario.

A firm should not always assume that historical patterns will repeat.
For example, a firm should not assume that if it has suffered no or
minimal losses in a certain business line or product in the past, such a
pattern will continue. In addition, a firm should carefully analyze
effects of any structural changes in customer base, product, and
financial markets on its projections, as these changes could
significantly affect a firm’s performance under stress scenarios.
Furthermore, the firm should explore the potential effects of changes in
assumed interrelationships among variables and the behavior of
exposures. The firm should also explicitly justify, document, and
appropriately challenge any assumptions about diversification benefits.

A firm should confirm that key assumptions used in vendor or other
third-party products are transparent and have sufficient support before
using the products in stress testing. The firm should limit use of
vendor products whose assumptions are not fully transparent or supported
or use those products only in conjunction with another approach or
compensating controls (e.g., overlays).

Differences in Expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,
as Compared to Large and Noncomplex Firms

The Federal Reserve expects a LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm to
apply sensitivity analysis, including assumptions used in vendor models,
to all approaches and assumptions used in capital planning. In contrast,
a Large and Noncomplex Firm is expected to use sensitivity analysis only
for material approaches and assumptions used in material vendor models.
In addition, the Federal Reserve expects a LISCC Firm and a Large and
Complex Firm to subject a greater range of assumptions to sensitivity
analysis and subject assumptions based on historical patterns to greater
scrutiny.

Appendix E: Role of the Internal Audit Function in the Capital Planning
Process

A firm’s internal audit function should play a key role in evaluating
the adequacy of the firm’s capital planning process and in assessing
whether the risk management and internal control practices supporting
that process are comprehensive and effective. A firm should establish an
audit program around its capital planning process that is consistent
with SR letter 13-1, “Supplemental Policy Statement on the Internal
Audit Function and Its Outsourcing.”

1. Responsibilities of audit function

The internal audit function should identify all auditable processes
related to capital planning and develop an associated audit plan. The
audit function should also perform substantive testing to ascertain the
effectiveness of the control framework supporting the firm’s capital
planning process, communicate identified limitations and deficiencies to
senior management, and communicate material limitations and deficiencies
to the board of directors (or the audit committee of the board). The
audit function should comprehensively cover the firm’s capital planning
process.

The internal audit function should perform periodic reviews of all
aspects of the internal control framework supporting the capital
planning process to ensure that all individual components as well as the
entire process are functioning in accordance with supervisory
expectations and the firm’s policies and procedures. The internal audit
function should also review the manner in which deficiencies are
identified, tracked, and remediated. Furthermore, the internal audit
function should ensure appropriate independent review is occurring at
various levels within the capital planning process.

A firm’s internal audit staff should have the appropriate competence and
stature to identify and escalate key issues when necessary. Adequate
quantitative expertise is needed to assess the effectiveness of the
capital planning processes and procedures. The role of audit staff is to
evaluate whether the capital planning process is comprehensive,
rigorous, and effective. The internal audit function may also rely on an
independent third party external to the firm to complete some of the
substantive testing as long as the internal audit function can
demonstrate proper independence of the third party from the area being
assessed and provide oversight over the execution and quality of the
work.

Other supervisory expectations for the internal audit function relating
to the capital adequacy process include:

-   verifying that acceptable policies are in place and that staff
    comply with those policies;
-   assessing accuracy and completeness of the model inventory;
-   evaluating procedures for updating processes and ensuring
    appropriate change/version controls;
-   confirming that staff are meeting documentation standards, including
    reporting;
-   reviewing supporting operational systems and evaluating the
    reliability of data used in the capital planning process; and
-   reviewing the quality of any work conducted by external parties.

2. Development of audit plan

The internal audit function should have a documented plan describing its
strategy to assess the processes and controls supporting the firm’s
capital planning process. When defining the annual audit universe and
audit plan, the internal audit function of a firm should focus on the
most significant risks relating to the capital planning process. The
firm may leverage existing or regularly scheduled audits to ensure
coverage of all the capital planning process components; however, the
findings and conclusions of these audits should be incorporated into the
overall summary of audit activities and conclusions regarding the firm’s
capital planning process.

The internal audit function should also establish a process for
reviewing and updating, as appropriate, its audit plan annually to
account for material changes to the firm’s capital planning process,
internal control systems, infrastructure, work processes, business
lines, or changes to relevant laws and regulations. The firm should also
ensure that the periodic assessment of the capital planning process is
supported by a reliable and current assessment of the individual
components.

3. Briefings to senior management and board

On an annual basis, the internal audit function should report to senior
management and the board of directors on the capital planning process to
inform recommendations and decisions on the firm’s capital plan. The
report should provide an opinion of the capital planning process, a
statement of the effectiveness of the controls and processes employed, a
status update on previously identified issues and remediation plans, and
any open issues or uncertainties related to the firm’s capital plan. Any
key processes that are not comprehensively reviewed and tested, due to
timing or significant changes in processes, should be clearly documented
and identified as areas with potential heightened risk. In addition, a
firm’s internal audit function should brief theboard of directors (or a
designated committee thereof) and senior management at least quarterly
on the status of key findings relating to the capital planning process.

The internal audit function should track responses to its findings and
report to the board any cases in which senior management is not
implementing required changes related to audit findings or is doing so
with insufficient intensity. In addition, the internal audit function
should report any identified material deficiencies, limitations, or
weaknesses related to the firm’s capital planning process to the board
of directors and senior management in a timely manner.

Differences in Expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,
as Compared to Large and Noncomplex Firms

The expectations for internal audit at a LISCC Firm and a Large and
Complex Firm are more specific and detailed than the expectations for a
Large and Noncomplex Firm. For example, the internal audit function of a
LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm is expected to conduct a deeper,
more detailed assessment of the firm’s model inventory, procedures for
updating processes and change and version controls, adherence to
documentation standards, operational systems, and work conducted by
external parties. In addition, internal audit at a LISCC Firm and a
Large and Complex Firm should have more explicit procedures for updating
its audit plans. Last, a LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm should
brief the board of directors at least quarterly about key findings
related to the capital planning process (in addition to the formal
annual audit report, which is an expectation for a LISCC Firm, a Large
and Complex Firm, and a Large and Noncomplex Firm).

Appendix F: Capital Policy

A firm’s capital policy should describe how the firm manages, monitors,
and makes decisions regarding capital planning.²⁸ The policy should
include internal post-stress capital goals and real-time targeted
capital levels; guidelines for dividends and stock repurchases; and
strategies for addressing potential capital shortfalls.

A firm’s capital policy should describe the manner in which consolidated
estimates of capital positions are presented to senior management and
the board of directors. The capital policy should require staff with
responsibility for developing capital estimates to clearly identify and
communicate to senior management and board of directors the key
assumptions affecting various components that feed into the aggregate
estimate of capital positions and ratios. The capital policy should
require that aggregated results be directly compared against the firm’s
stated post-stress capital goals, and that those comparisons are
included within the standard reporting to senior management and the
board of directors.

1. Post-stress capital goals

Post-stress capital goals should provide specific minimum thresholds for
the level and composition of capital that the firm intends to maintain
during a stress period. Post-stress capital goals should include any
capital measures that are relevant to the firm.

The firm should be able to demonstrate through its own internal
analysis, independently of regulatory capital requirements, that
remaining at or above its internal post-stress capital goals will allow
the firm to continue to operate. Capital goals should take into
consideration the uncertainty inherent in capital planning, as well as
the economic and market outlook.

The capital policy should describe how senior management and the board
concluded that the firm’s post-stress capital goals are appropriate,
sustainable in different conditions and environments, and consistent
with its strategic objectives, business model, and capital plan. In
addition, the capital policy should describe the process by which the
firm establishes its post-stress capital goals, and include the
supporting analysis underpinning the goals chosen by the firm.

A firm should annually review its capital goals, evaluate whether its
post-stress capital goals are still appropriate based on changes in
operating environment, business mix, or other conditions, and adjust
those goals as needed.

A firm should adjust its real-time capital targets (that is the amount
of current capital it holds above its post-stress capital goals to
ensure it does not fall below those goals under stress) more frequently
than it adjusts capital goals, based on changes in the business mix,
operating environment, or other current conditions and circumstances.

2. Dividends and stock repurchases

A firm’s capital policy should describe the processes relating to common
stock dividend and repurchase decisions, including the processes to
determine the timing, form, and amount of all planned distributions. The
capital policy should also specify the analysis and metrics that senior
management and the board use to make capital distribution decisions. The
analysis should include strategic considerations such as new business
initiatives, potential acquisitions, and the other relevant factors.

The capital policy should identify the types of calculations and
analysis that support a firm’s proposed capital actions and determine
the amount of capital available for distribution at any given time. For
example, a firm should develop and use payout ratio limits in the
decision making process. While payout ratio limits or targets should not
be the single determining factor, the capital policy should describe how
payout ratio limits or targets are considered, including how they are
consistent with firm’s strategic goals, how they were derived, and what
analysis was used to determine the appropriate amount of capital to
distribute in a given period. Further, a firm should include in its
capital policy threshold levels for payout ratios that trigger
management action. Such action should include escalation to the board
and potential suspension of capital distributions. Escalation protocols
should be clear, credible, and actionable in the event of an actual or
projected target is breached.

3. Contingency plans for capital shortfalls

A firm’s capital policy should include specific capital contingency
actions the firm would take to remedy any current or prospective
deficiencies in its capital position. The firm’s capital contingency
plan should reflect strategies for identifying and addressing potential
capital shortfalls and specify circumstances under which the board of
directors and senior management will revisit planned capital actions or
otherwise institute contingency measures.²⁹ A contingency plan should
include a set of thresholds for metrics or events that provide early
warning signs of capital deterioration and that trigger management
action or scrutiny.³⁰ Additionally, triggers for more severe levels of
deterioration should be linked to escalation procedures for more
immediate management action and should be consistent with triggers in
the firm’s recovery plan. Triggers should reflect both point-in-time and
forward-looking measures (both baseline and stress).

Capital contingency plans should include options for actions that a firm
would consider taking to remedy any current or prospective deficiencies
in its capital position, such as reducing or ceasing capital
distributions, raising additional capital, reducing risk, or employing
other means to preserve existing capital. Contingency options in the
firm’s capital policy should be consequential, realistic, actionable,
and comprehensive.

Capital contingency plans should include a detailed explanation of the
circumstances in which the firm would consider implementing these
options, including when it would reduce or suspend a dividend or
repurchase program or not execute a previously planned capital action.
The capital contingency plans should specify the type of information
that would be provided to decision makers when the firm’s current or
projected capital levels have deteriorated, including how management
would present options to address the capital position and the long-term
viability of the firm. Contingency options should be ranked according to
ease of execution and impact and should incorporate an assessment of
stakeholder reactions. All options should be evaluated for their
feasibility and the reasonableness of underlying assumptions (such as
whether a firm would be able to raise capital or draw on capital from
another entity during a period of stressful market conditions).

Differences in Expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,
as Compared to Large and Noncomplex Firms

The Federal Reserve expects a LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm to
include quantitative payout ratios in its distribution decision-making
process, but does not have this expectation for Large and Noncomplex
Firms. The Federal Reserve also expects a LISCC Firm and a Large and
Complex Firm to provide more support for its post-stress capital goals
than a Large and Noncomplex Firm.

In addition, the Federal Reserve expects a LISCC Firm and a Large and
Complex Firm to include additional detail on contingency options in its
capital contingency plan and to integrate its capital contingency plan
with the firm’s broader crisis management framework. In contrast, the
Federal Reserve does not have these expectations for Large and
Noncomplex Firms.

See section D, “Capital Policy,” for additional differentiated
expectations for a firm’s capital policy.

Appendix G: Scenario Design

As part of its capital plan, a firm must use at least one scenario that
stresses the specific vulnerabilities of the firm’s risk profile and
operations, including those related to the company’s capital adequacy
and financial condition.³¹ The firm’s stress scenario should be at least
as severe as the Federal Reserve’s severely adverse supervisory
scenario, measured in terms of its effect on net income and other
elements that affect capital.³²

As noted in the core document, a firm should develop at least one
complete firm-specific scenario that focuses on the specific
vulnerabilities of the firm’s risk profile and operations. The firm’s
scenario should be carefully tailored to the idiosyncratic risks of the
firm, as defined through the firm’s internal material
risk-identification process, and should incorporate circumstances that
are particularly stressful to the firm, given the firm’s idiosyncratic
risks and key vulnerabilities. Such circumstances include those
affecting the firm’s particular business model, revenue drivers, mix of
assets and liabilities, geographic footprint, portfolio characteristics,
and specific operational risk vulnerabilities. The firm can incorporate
the idiosyncratic stress considerations in macroeconomic and financial
market variables or a discrete stress event included in the scenario. A
firm-specific scenario would not meet supervisory expectations if it is
not tailored to the firm’s activities and risks. This is the case even
if the severity is generally equivalent to the supervisory stress
scenarios or if the post-stress capital ratios are lower than those
under the supervisory severely adverse scenario.

The stress scenario should include stressful circumstances and events
that could, on a standalone basis or in combination, reduce the firm’s
capital levels and ratios and potentially impede the firm’s ability to
operate as a going concern, and cover material risks to which the firm
is exposed over the course of an annual planning cycle. A firm’s
scenario should include factors that capture economy- or market-wide
stresses and idiosyncratic risks that can put a strain on the firm. A
firm should also take into account conditions and events that have not
previously occurred, but that may pose a significant threat to the firm
given its exposures, risk profile, and business strategy.

Use of multiple scenarios

In addition, a firm should use multiple scenarios as part of its ongoing
capital adequacy assessment to assess a broad range of risks, stressful
conditions, or events that could impact the firm’s capital adequacy.
This assessment should inform development of the internal stress
scenario(s) used in the firm’s plan, the firm’s post-stress capital
goals, and its current capital targets. The firm’s scenarios should
collectively address all material risks to which the firm is exposed
over the course of an annual planning cycle.

In designing its stress scenarios, a firm should incorporate risks and
vulnerabilities that arise from multiple factors, sources, and events.
Historical data may provide a starting point for scenarios, but a firm
should also consider other data sources and challenge conventional
assumptions when identifying the stressful conditions and events that
could adversely affect the firm’s capital adequacy. In certain
instances, scenarios that include economic and financial market
variables that deviate from historical experience and correlations are
appropriate if, for example, previously unobserved vulnerabilities exist
in certain sectors of the economy or financial markets. In addition, the
firm should not exclude experiences that have occurred outside its own
history when designing stress scenarios, particularly if the firm has
recently expanded its business to include new products, markets, or
customers.

The macroeconomic variables used in a given scenario should collectively
describe the general operational environment considered in the scenario.
A firm should ensure that the scenario includes sufficient macroeconomic
variables to support its stress testing estimation methods. While a firm
should assess the internal consistency of the scenario, the firm should
evaluate whether deviations from historically observed relationships
among macroeconomic variables that increase the degree of stress placed
on the firm may be appropriate.

Depending on the significance of market risk in a firm’s overall risk
profile, the firm’s stress scenarios should include an adverse movement
in financial market variables, such as asset prices, spreads, and rates,
and related risk factors that impact a firm’s trading exposures. The
firm should base market risk factors in the scenario on a thorough
evaluation of the specific positions of the firm and the material risks
coincident with those positions. A firm should limit use of past periods
of financial market stress that do not sufficiently stress the firm’s
current positions.

Differences in Expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,
as Compared to Large and Noncomplex Firms

The Federal Reserve has elevated expectations for a LISCC Firm and a
Large and Complex Firm relating to scenario design. Specifically, a
LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm is expected to develop a
scenario that is directly linked to the idiosyncratic risks of the firm,
as determined by its risk-identification process and risk assessment. In
contrast, a Large and Noncomplex Firm is expected to either develop a
firm-specific scenario or adjust the Federal Reserve’s scenario to
reflect the firm’s own risk profie.

In addition, a LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm should use
multiple internally-designed scenarios as part of its efforts to assess
a broad range of risks, stressful conditions, or events that could
impact the firm’s capital adequacy. A Large and Noncomplex Firm is not
expected to use multiple scenarios in its capital planning process.

Appendix H: Risk-Weighted Asset (RWA) Projections

A firm should maintain a sound process for projecting RWAs over the
planning horizon. The firm’s initial RWA calculations should be
consistent with applicable regulatory capital requirements. In addition,
the firm’s projections of RWAs should be developed in a fashion
consistent with the scenario conditions and in accordance with
applicable regulatory capital requirements.

1. Initial RWA calculations

Starting balances for both on- and off-balance sheet exposures and
applicable risk weights form the foundation for estimates of post-stress
capital ratios. Therefore, firms should verify carefully the accuracy of
these starting balances. Moreover, deficiencies in starting RWA
calculations are generally compounded in RWA projections over the
planning horizon. A firm should ensure that it has sound controls around
its RWA calculation and regulatory reporting processes as part of the
firm’s broader data governance program.

2. RWA projections

A firm should ensure that RWA projections are consistent with a given
scenario and incorporate the impact of projected changes in exposure
amounts and risk characteristics of on- and off-balance sheet exposures
under the scenario. A firm should demonstrate that assumptions
associated with RWA projections are clearly conditioned on a given
scenario and are consistent with stated internal and external business
strategies. In addition, firms should ensure that projected market
risk-weighted assets (market RWAs) are consistent with market factors
(e.g., volatility levels, equity index levels, bond spreads) and
assumptions around the size and composition of their trading assets.

A firm should document assumptions for projecting RWAs and their
relationship to the RWA projections. If the firm’s models for projecting
RWAs rely upon historical relationships, the firm should provide a
description of the historical data used and clearly describe why these
relationships are expected to be maintained under a given scenario.
Further, a firm should analyze the appropriateness of assumptions
regarding the following:

-   any aggregation of balance projections by exposure type or
    characteristic (e.g., balances for exposures that do not distinguish
    between amounts that are considered past due and those that are
    current) for purposes of applying corresponding risk weights;
-   any use of average or effective risk weights based on the firm’s
    as-of date portfolio composition or historical trend; and
-   any exposure types for which RWAs are held constant over the
    projection horizon.

For purposes of projecting RWAs under the standardized approach, a firm
should project balances, risk characteristics, and calculation
parameters with appropriate consistency and granularity to facilitate
application of appropriate regulatory risk weights for its on- and
off-balance sheet exposures.³³ In particular, RWA projections should
include information sufficient to assess the impact of potential changes
to the following:

-   counterparty mix, collateral mix, collateral haircuts, and netting
    assumptions for derivatives and repo-style transactions;
-   default fund assumptions for derivatives that are centrally cleared;
-   Simplified supervisory formula approach (SSFA) input parameters for
    securitization exposures;
-   Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Country
    Risk Classifications (CRCs) or default status relating to foreign
    exposures;
-   the utilization rate of off-balance sheet lines of credit;
-   the mix between unconditionally cancellable and conditionally
    cancellable off balance sheet exposures;
-   the volume of residential mortgage exposures that qualify for 50
    percent risk weight; and
-   the volume of past due exposures as defined under Regulation Q.³⁴

3. Market risk-weighted asset projections

The methods and processes used to project market RWAs will differ across
firms, in part as a function of the combination of model and non-model
based methods used to determine starting market RWAs. However, as a
general matter, market RWAs are expected to be positively correlated to
volatility, spreads, or other relevant market factors, holding all
things equal. If a firm projects flat or declining market RWAs over the
planning horizon under the stress scenarios, the firm should provide
support for the reasonableness of these assumptions under stressful
market conditions. In addition, the firm should demonstrate that those
assumptions are applied consistently across the enterprise-wide stress
testing process, including for revenue projections.

If a firm that is not currently subject to the market risk rule projects
its trading assets and trading liabilities to grow over the planning
horizon, it should assess whether the projected growth would require the
firm to calculate market RWA under the regulatory capital rule.³⁵ The
firm should estimate the effect of market RWAs, if applicable, on its
projected capital ratios and document the process used to project market
RWAs in its capital plan.

4. Independent review of RWA reporting and projections

A firm should implement and document an independent review of RWA
regulatory reporting by the firm’s internal audit function or another
independent control function. The independent review should ensure
point-in-time RWA calculation processes appropriately capture all
relevant on- and off-balance sheet exposures and are consistent with
applicable risk-weighting methodologies to which the firm is subject
under Regulation Q. The independent review should be conducted by a
party with the necessary expertise to perform such reviews but with
independence from the assignment of the risk weights for regulatory
reporting purposes. The review should provide reasonable assurance that
the initial RWAs are accurate and that the methods used to project RWAs
are sound. Documentation of the independent review should clearly
describe the scope of the review, outcomes and findings of the review,
and any associated remediation efforts. A firm should also ensure that
the underlying data processes supporting RWA projections include
appropriate controls, reconciliations and attestations, and that data
integrity testing is conducted by an independent party.

Differences in Expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,
as Compared to Large and Noncomplex Firms

The Federal Reserve has elevated expectations for a LISCC Firm and a
Large and Complex Firm relating to RWAs projections. For instance, a
LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm should provide more detailed
support and documentation for assumptions regarding RWA projections, and
implement an independent review of RWA projections. In contrast, a Large
and Noncomplex Firm is not held to the heightened expectations regarding
RWA projections, and is not expected to implement an independent review
of RWA projections.

In addition, this appendix sets forth expectations for market RWA
projections, which would apply only to a LISCC Firm and a Large and
Complex Firm.

Appendix I: Operational Loss Projections

A firm faces a wide range of operational risk in conducting its business
operations. Operational losses can arise from various sources, including
inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems, or from
external events, and can differ in frequency and severity. For example,
some operational loss events, such as credit card fraud, are often more
predictable as they occur at high frequency, but generally have low loss
severity. The outcome of other events, such as major litigation, are
less certain and can result in outsized losses.

Risk-identification process

A firm should maintain a sound process for estimating operational risk
losses in its capital planning process, taking into account the
differences in loss characteristics of different operational loss event
types. A firm’s risk-identification process should include the
evaluation of the type of operational risk loss events to which the firm
is exposed and the sensitivity of those events to internal and external
operating environments.

The firm-specific scenario submitted in a firm’s capital plan should
capture the firm’s material operational risks, be designed with the
firm’s particular vulnerabilities in mind, and include potential
firm-specific events such as system failures, or litigation-related
losses. The firm should evaluate both the firm’s own loss history and
the large loss events experienced by industry peers with similar
business mix and overall operational risk profiles.

Approaches to operational loss estimation

The firm should have transparent and well-supported estimation
approaches based on both quantitative analysis and expert judgment, and
should not rely on unstable or unintuitive correlations to project
operational losses. Scenario analysis should be a core component of the
firm’s operational loss projection approaches.

Certain operational risks, particularly those most likely to give rise
to large losses, often may not have measureable relationships to the
overall scenario conditions. In addition, large operational loss events
are often idiosyncratic, limiting the relevance of historical data. The
firm should also limit dependence on distribution-based approaches that
rely on historical data and require significant assumptions when
projecting large operational losses. The firm should evaluate a range of
outcomes under various scenarios, and make generally conservative
assumptions.

The firm should engage business line and senior management to identify
operational risk vulnerabilities and assess ways an operational risk
event may unfold. The estimation approaches should also be subject to an
effective independent review and challenge process.

Use of data

The firm’s operational loss projection approaches should make
appropriate use of relevant reference data, including both internal and
external data, evaluate all measurable linkages to overall scenario
conditions, and include all potential sources of material operational
risk losses across the firm. A firm’s internal loss data should serve as
both inputs to the firm’s operational loss estimation approaches
projections and a benchmark for operational loss estimates in various
scenarios. A firm should have sound and comprehensive internal
data-collection processes that capture key operational elements. The
firm should include all relevant operational loss data, including large
operational loss events such as legal settlements and tax and compliance
penalties. If a firm’s internal data lack sufficient operational loss
history or granularity, the firm should use relevant external data to
supplement its internal data.

Differences in Expectations for LISCC Firms and Large and Complex Firms,
as Compared to Large and Noncomplex Firms

The Federal Reserve has elevated expectations for a LISCC Firm and a
Large and Complex Firm relating to operational loss projections. For
example, a LISCC Firm and a Large and Complex Firm should use scenario
analysis in its operational loss projections, use both internal and
external operational risk data, have greater support for its
assumptions, and solicit input from senior management on operational
risk events. In contrast, a Large and Noncomplex Firm is not expected to
use scenario analysis, may use external data if internal data are
lacking, and is not held to the same expectations related to assumptions
or engagement with senior management.

Issued by the Board Dec. 18, 2015 (SR-15-18).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

¹

The LISCC framework is designed to materially increase the financial and
operational resiliency of systemically important financial institutions
to reduce the probability of, and cost associated with, their material
financial distress or failure. See
www.federalreserve.gov/bankinforeg/large-institution-supervision.htm.

²

Note that these expectations build upon the capital planning
requirements set forth in the Board’s capital plan rule and stress test
rules (12 CFR 225.8; 12 CFR 252, subparts E and F). Other relevant rules
pertaining to the Board’s regulatory regime for capital planning and
positions are described above in section II, “Regulatory Requirements
for Capital Positions and Planning.” The Federal Reserve may not conduct
or sponsor, and an organization (or a person) is not required to respond
to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB
control number.

³

Total consolidated assets equals the amount of total assets reported on
the firm’s Consolidated Financial Statements for Holding Companies (FR
Y-9C), measured as an average over the preceding four quarters. If a
firm has notfiled the FR Y-9C for each of the four most recent
consecutive quarters, a firm’s total consolidated assets are measured as
the average of its total consolidated assets, as reported on the FR
Y-9C, for the most recent quarter or consecutive quarters, as
applicable. Consolidated total on-balance sheet foreign exposure equals
total cross-border claims less claims with head office or guarantor
located in another country plus redistributed guaranteed amounts to the
country of head office or guarantor plus local country claims on local
residents plus revaluation gains on foreign exchange and derivative
products, calculated as of the most recent year-end in accordance with
the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) 009
Country Exposure Report.

⁴

This guidance does not apply to nonbank financial companies designated
by the Financial Stability Oversight Council for supervision by the
Board of Governors. Capital position and capital planning expectations
will be issued for those firms at a later date.

⁵

With the issuance of this letter, SR letter 99-18, “Assessing Capital
Adequacy in Relation to Risk at Large Banking Organizations and Others
with Complex Risk Profiles,” is superseded and SR letter 09-4, “Applying
Supervisory Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of Dividends, Stock
Redemptions, and Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies” is
superseded with respect to firms subject to this guidance.

⁶

The capital planning process described in this guidance is broadly
equivalent to an internal capital adequacy assessment process (ICAAP)
under the Federal Reserve’s advanced approaches capital guidelines. The
expectations articulated in this document are consistent with the U.S.
federal banking agencies’ supervisory guidance relating to the ICAAP
(see 73 FR 44620 (July 31, 2008)).

⁷

The term “capital planning process” used in this document, which aligns
with terminology in SR 12-17/CA 12-14, is equivalent to the term
“capital adequacy process” used in other Federal Reserve documents.

⁸

12 CFR 225.8(e)(1)(iii).

⁹

12 CFR 225.8(e)(2).

¹⁰

For simplicity, the terms “quantitative” and “qualitative” are used to
describe two different types of approaches, with the recognition that
all quantitative estimation approaches involve some
qualitative/judgmental aspects, and qualitative estimation approaches
produce quantitative output.

¹¹

See Instructions for the Capital Planning and Stress Testing Information
Collection (Reporting Form FR Y-14A), Appendix A (Supporting
Documentation), available at:
www.federalreserve.gov/apps/reportforms/reportdetail.aspx?sOoYJ+5BzDa2AwLR/gLe5DPhQFttuq/4.

¹²

See SR letter 11-7, “Supervisory Guidance on Model Risk Management.” The
term “effective challenge” means critical review by objective, informed
parties who have the proper incentives, competence, and influence to
challenge the model and its results.

¹³

The definition of a model covers quantitative approaches whose inputs
are partially or wholly qualitative or based on expert judgment,
provided that the output is quantitative in nature.

¹⁴

Materiality of the model is a function of both the importance of the
business or portfolio assessed and the impact of the model on the firm’s
overall results.

¹⁵

Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, “IT Examination
Handbook—Operations Booklet,” available at:
http://ithandbook.ffiec.gov/ITBooklets/FFIEC_ITBooklet_Operations.pdf.
See also SR letter 15-3, “FFIEC Information Technology Examination
Handbook.”

¹⁶

For additional information on supervisory expectations for internal
audit, see SR letter 13-1, “Supplemental Policy Statement on the
Internal Audit Function and Its Outsourcing.”

¹⁷

12 CFR 225.8(d)(7).

¹⁸

12 CFR 225.8(e)(1)(iii).

¹⁹

Consistent with the Board’s November 14, 1985, Policy Statement on the
Payment of Cash Dividends, the principles of which are incorporated into
this guidance, firms should have comprehensive policies on dividend
payments that clearly articulate the firm’s objectives and approaches
for maintaining a strong capital position and achieving the objectives
of the policy statement. See Bank Holding Company Supervision Manual,
section 2020.5.1.1, Intercompany Transactions (Dividends), available at:
www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/supmanual/bhc/bhc.pdf.

²⁰

12 CFR 225.8(e)(2).

²¹

Firms are required to collect and report a substantial amount of risk
information to the Federal Reserve on FR Y-14 schedules. These data may
help to support the firms’ enterprise-wide stress test. See Capital
Assessments and Stress Testing information collection, Reporting Forms
FR Y-14A, Q, and M.

²²

See SR letter 13-19/CA 13-21, “Guidance on Managing Outsourcing Risk.”

²³

For the purposes of this appendix, the term “overlays” will be used to
cover overrides, overlays, or other adjustments applied to model output.
Firms should follow expectations set forth in SR letter 11-7,
“Supervisory Guidance on Model Risk Management,” relating to overlays.

²⁴

Expectations for the use of judgment within model development is
discussed in Appendix A: Use of Models and Other Estimation Approaches.

²⁵

Firms may choose to apply overall capital buffers as an additional
conservative measure, beyond overlays applied at the model level.
Overall capital buffers should be subject to the same governance
processes applicable to model overlays, as described in section 2 of
this appendix. However, supervisors emphasize that having such a buffer
should not in any way replace sound model risk-management practices for
overlays at the individual model level or address the need for the
overlay at the individual model level.

²⁶

The term “effective challenge” means critical review by objective,
informed parties who have the proper incentives, competence, and
influence to challenge the model and its results.

²⁷

Note that the terms “benchmark model” and “challenger model” are used
interchangeably for purposes of this appendix to mean a model to support
or give additional perspective to a primary model.

²⁸

A capital policy is a firm’s written assessment of the principles and
guidelines used for capital planning, issuance, usage, and
distributions. 12 CFR 225.8(d)(7).

²⁹

Capital contingency planning should be closely integrated with the
broader crisis management framework, including recovery and other
contingency planning efforts focused on ensuring sustainability under a
broad range of internal or external stresses. See SR letter 14-1
“Heightened Supervisory Expectations for Recovery and Resolution
Preparedness for Certain Large Bank Holding Companies,” and SR letter
14-8, “Consolidated Recovery Planning for Certain Large Domestic Bank
Holding Companies.”

³⁰

Capital contingency plans may include triggers for liquidity, earnings,
debt and credit default swap spreads, ratings downgrades, stock
performance, supervisory actions, general market stress, or other
noncapital metrics.

³¹

12 CFR 225.8(e)(2). In addition, a firm is required to report to the
Federal Reserve its projections under a base-line scenario, which
captures the firm’s view of the likely operating environment over the
planning horizon. A firm may use the Board’s baseline scenario for its
own baseline scenario if the firm can demonstrate that the Board’s
base-line scenario is appropriate for the firm’s own risks, activities,
and outlook; however, a firm cannot use the Board’s severely adverse
scenario for its own stress scenario.

³²

For guidance on the severity of the scenarios, a firm should review the
Board’s “Policy Statement on the Scenario Design Framework for Stress
Testing,” which sets forth the Board’s approach to designing the
severely adverse scenario. See 12 CFR part 252, appendix A. 12 CFR part
252, appendix A.

³³

12 CFR 217, subpart D.

³⁴

12 CFR 217.32(k).

³⁵

12 CFR 217.201.
