                                      BOARD OF GOVERNORS
                                                     OF THE

                                  FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
                                              WASHINGTON, D.C. 20551




                                                                              DIVISION OF SUPERVISION
                                                                              AND REGULATION


                                                                              SR 20-24
                                                                              November 2, 2020
                                                                              Revised June 2, 2026


Revision History:
On June 2, 2026: This letter’s attachment, Sound Practices to Strengthen Operational
Resilience, was revised to remove references to reputational risk.



TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF SUPERVISION
  AT EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK

SUBJECT: Interagency Paper on Sound Practices to Strengthen Operational Resilience

Applicability: The attached interagency guidance applies to federal savings associations,
national banks, state member banks, state nonmember banks, savings associations, U.S. bank
holding companies, and savings and loan holding companies that have average total consolidated
assets greater than or equal to (a) $250 billion or (b) $100 billion and have $75 billion or more in
average cross-jurisdictional activity, average weighted short-term wholesale funding, average
nonbank assets, or average off-balance-sheet exposure.

        The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the agencies) have issued the
attached interagency paper, “Sound Practices to Strengthen Operational Resilience” (sound
practices).1 To help large and complex domestic firms address unforeseen challenges to their
operational resilience, the sound practices are drawn from existing regulations, guidance, and
statements as well as common industry standards that address operational risk management,
business continuity management, third-party risk management, cybersecurity risk management,
and recovery and resolution planning. The guidance in the sound practices does not amend,
expand, or alter the agencies’ existing regulations or guidance.

        Although it is important for all firms to strengthen their operational resilience, the sound
practices are directed to the largest and most complex domestic firms. As detailed in the
attached Explanatory Note, firms in recent years have experienced significant challenges from a
1
 See October 30, 2020, Board press release at
https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/pressreleases/bcreg20201030a.htm.
                                                                                                        Page 1 of 2
wide range of disruptive events, including technology-based failures, cyber incidents, pandemics,
and natural disasters. Such events, combined with a growing reliance on third-party service
providers, expose firms to a range of operational risks.

         Reserve Banks are asked to distribute this letter to the supervised institutions in their
districts and to appropriate supervisory staff. Questions regarding this letter may be sent via the
Board’s public website.2




                                               Michael S. Gibson
                                                   Director

Attachment:
      •    Sound Practices to Strengthen Operational Resilience
      •    Explanatory Note




2
    See, http://www.federalreserve.gov/apps/contactus/feedback.aspx
                                                                                          Page 2 of 2
In June 2026, this document was revised to remove references to reputational risk.



                          Sound Practices to Strengthen Operational Resilience

    Introduction

    The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the
    Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the agencies) are issuing an interagency
    paper on Sound Practices to Strengthen Operational Resilience (sound practices). The sound
    practices seek to provide firms with ways to strengthen their operational resilience in the face of
    internal and external operational risks1 that, left unchecked, could lead to a wide-scale disruption.

    In recent years, firms have experienced significant challenges from a wide range of disruptive
    events including technology-based failures, cyber incidents, pandemic outbreaks, and natural
    disasters. While advances in technology have improved firms’ ability to identify and recover from
    various types of disruptions, increasingly sophisticated cyber threats and growing reliance on third
    parties continue to expose firms to a range of operational risks. These operational risks underscore
    the importance for firms of all sizes to strengthen their operational resilience. While potential
    hazards may not be prevented, the agencies consider that a flexible operational resilience approach
    can enhance the ability of firms to prepare, adapt, withstand, and recover from disruptions and to
    continue operations.

    Although operational resilience is important to all firms, the sound practices set forth in this paper
    are written for use by the largest and most complex domestic firms. This paper describes sound
    practices drawn from existing regulations and guidance for individual national banks, state
    member banks, state nonmember banks, savings associations, U.S. bank holding companies, and
    savings and loan holding companies that have average total consolidated assets greater than or
    equal to: (a) $250 billion, or (b) $100 billion and have $75 billion or more in average cross-
    jurisdictional activity, average weighted short-term wholesale funding, average nonbank assets, or
    average off-balance-sheet exposure.2 This paper does not set forth any new regulations or guidance
    for these firms, but brings together the existing regulations and guidance in one place to assist in
    the development of comprehensive approaches to operational resilience. It also highlights the
    importance of operational resilience with respect to firms’ critical operations and core business
    lines.




1
  As specified in 12 CFR 3.101 and 217.101 (Regulation Q), operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from
  inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems, or from external events. This definition includes legal
  risk but excludes strategic risk.
2
  This includes U.S. domestic firms that are considered 1) Globally Important Systemic Bank Holding Companies, 2)
  Category II bank holding companies, 3) Category II savings and loan holding companies, 4) Category III bank
  holding companies, or 5) Category III savings and loan holding companies. It also includes GSIB depository
  institutions supervised by the OCC, Category II national banks and Federal savings associations, and Category III
  national banks and Federal savings associations (see, e.g., 12 CFR 3.2 and 50.3; 12 CFR 324.2). It does not apply to
  U.S. intermediate holding companies.
    While the sound practices prioritize the operational resilience of critical operations and core
    business lines of a firm and its material entities, 3 a firm also should identify and address the
    resilience of other operations, services, and functions for which a disruption could have a
    significant adverse impact on the firm or its customers as part of operational resilience planning.

    Critical operations and core business lines are defined as follows:

      i.    Critical operations are those operations of the firm, including associated services,
            functions, and support,4 the failure or discontinuance of which would pose a threat to the
            financial stability of the United States.5
      ii.   Core business lines are those business lines of the firm, including associated operations,
            services, functions, and support, that, in the view of the firm, upon failure would result in
            a material loss of revenue, profit, or franchise value.

    Most firms to which this paper is directed already identify their critical operations and core
    business lines in their recovery or resolution plans.6 These plans map out operational
    interconnections and interdependencies among a firm’s material entities, across business lines, and
    with significant third parties. Accordingly, firms that are subject to recovery or resolution planning
    requirements can leverage relevant information in these plans for managing operational resilience.

    Operational resilience is the ability to deliver operations, including critical operations and core
    business lines, through a disruption from any hazard. It is the outcome of effective operational risk
    management combined with sufficient financial and operational resources to prepare, adapt,
    withstand, and recover from disruptions.7 A firm that operates in a safe and sound manner is able
    to identify threats, respond and adapt to incidents, and recover and learn from such threats and
    incidents so that it can prioritize and deliver critical operations and core business lines, along with
    other operations, services and functions identified by the firm, through a disruption.

    Sound Practices to Strengthen Operational Resilience

    The sound practices outlined in this paper bring together existing regulations, guidance, and
    statements as well as common industry standards and provide a comprehensive approach that firms
    may use to strengthen and maintain their operational resilience. In this approach effective
    governance grounds the sound practices. Robust operational risk and business continuity
    management anchor the sound practices, which are informed by rigorous scenario analyses and


3
  A material entity is a subsidiary or foreign office of a firm that is significant to the activities of an identified critical
  operation or core business line, or is financially or operationally significant to the resolution of the firm.
4
  Associated services, functions, and support include management information services. These encompass a firm’s
  comprehensive processes, supported by computer-based systems, that provide the information necessary for the
  firm’s management, including systems and applications for risk management.
5
  As set forth in 12 CFR part 243—Resolution Plans (Regulation QQ)—Definitions. Not all firms subject to recovery or
  resolution plans have critical operations.
6
  See 12 CFR part 243 (Regulation QQ); 12 CFR part 30, Appendix E.
7
  The agencies note that there are several definitions of operational resilience used in the financial services sector,
  including those set forth by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), the Federal Financial
  Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC), and the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). The consistent
  theme in all of the definitions is the importance maintaining the ability to deliver operations through disruption from
  any hazard.

                                                              2
    consider third-party risks. Secure and resilient information systems underpin the approach to
    operational resilience, which is supported by thorough surveillance and reporting.

    Appendix A provides a separate collection of sound practices for managing cyber risk in
    recognition of its significance as an operational risk, and its technical nature. Appendix B provides
    a glossary of definitions used in these sound practices.

    1.     Governance

    Effective governance helps ensure that firms not only operate in a safe and sound manner and
    comply with applicable laws and regulations, but also maintain operational resilience. In keeping
    with existing regulations and guidance, the practices outlined below promote effective governance.

    a) The firm’s board of directors approves and periodically reviews its risk appetite 8 for
       weathering disruption from operational risks,9 at the enterprise level and for the firm’s critical
       operations and core business lines. In setting the firm’s risk appetite, the board of directors
       articulates the firm’s tolerance for disruption considering its risk profile and the capabilities of
       its supporting operational environment10 (“tolerance for disruption”).11
    b) The firm’s board of directors works with senior management to confirm that operational
       resilience practices are led and staffed by individuals with relevant expertise, approve
       appropriate budgets and resources, and promote a culture of effective risk management.
    c) The firm’s board of directors oversees the firm’s management of operational risk in its business
       line operations, its independent operational risk management function, and its independent
       internal (or external) audit function. Senior management is accountable for ensuring that each
       of these areas adheres to the firm’s tolerance for disruption.
    d) Senior management is accountable for maintaining a detailed, accurate, and regularly updated
       overview of the firm’s organizational and legal structure that identifies the critical operations
       and core business lines of the firm and its material entities.
    e) Senior management is accountable for developing, implementing, and managing effective and
       resilient information systems and controls, as appropriate, to maintain critical operations and
       core business lines consistent with the firm’s tolerance for disruption.


8
  As described in 12 CFR part 30, Appendix D, risk appetite is defined as the aggregate level and types of risk the
   board and senior management are willing to assume to achieve the firm’s strategic business objectives, consistent with
   applicable capital, liquidity, and other requirements and constraints. For operational resilience purposes, risk appetite
   statements reflect qualitative considerations and, as appropriate, quantitative measures.
9
  As described in 12 CFR 3.101 and 217.101 (Regulation Q), operational risks cover a range of events, which are
   categorized across event types comprising internal fraud; external fraud; employment practices and workplace safety;
   clients, products, and business practice; damage to physical assets; business disruption and systems failures, including
   those related to cyber; and execution, delivery, and process management.
10
    The firm’s operational environment would include, for example, systems, processes, technical infrastructure, risk
   management capabilities, and expertise.
11
    A firm’s tolerance for disruption generally is informed by existing regulations and guidance and by the analysis of a
   range of severe but plausible scenarios that would affect its critical operations and core business lines.



                                                             3
f) The internal (or external) audit function is responsible for independently assessing the design
   and ongoing effectiveness of the firm’s operational resilience efforts.

2.     Operational Risk Management

By identifying, managing, and mitigating operational risk exposures related to internal processes,
people, systems, external threats, and third parties, a firm is able to strengthen its operational
resilience. Effective operational risk management involves close engagement by the firm’s senior
management, business line operations, independent operational risk management function, and
independent internal (or external) audit function. In keeping with existing regulations and
guidance, the practices outlined below promote effective operational risk management.

a) The firm’s senior management oversees the implementation of operational risk management
   processes, systems, and controls to identify and contain the scope of a disruption, mitigate its
   effects, and resolve the disruption consistent with the firm’s tolerance for disruption.
b) The firm’s business line operations management identifies and mitigates operational risk
   exposures in alignment with the firm’s tolerance for disruption.
c) The firm’s operational risk management function assesses the critical operations and core
   business lines of the firm and its material entities. It determines the extent of exposure to
   various operational risks the firm faces or forecasts and the firm’s ability to recover from a
   disruption.
d) The firm’s operational risk management function regularly reviews, tests, and updates internal
   controls relevant to the firm’s critical operations and core business lines including those
   performed by third parties.
e) The firm’s operational risk management function implements and maintains risk identification
   and assessment approaches that adequately capture business processes and their associated
   operational risks, including technology and third-party risks.
f) The firm’s independent internal (or external) audit function provides a review and challenge
   of the firm’s operational risk management function and assesses whether it is appropriately
   operating within the firm’s tolerance for disruption.
g) The firm’s operational risk management function works closely with its business continuity
   management and recovery or resolution planning functions with respect to operational
   resilience efforts.

3.     Business Continuity Management

Business continuity plans consider market- and enterprise-wide stresses and idiosyncratic risks
that can imperil the continuity of a firm’s critical operations and core business lines or otherwise




                                                 4
 have a broader impact on the financial system. 12 A firm that is subject to recovery or resolution
 planning requirements can leverage the information in these plans for business continuity
 management purposes. In keeping with existing regulations and guidance, the practices outlined
 below promote sound business continuity management.13

 a) The firm’s business continuity management incorporates business impact analysis, 14 testing,
    training, and awareness programs, as well as communication and crisis management policies.
 b) The firm periodically reviews its business continuity plan to ensure contingency strategies
    remain consistent with current operations, risks and threats, its tolerance for disruption, and
    recovery priorities.15 For a firm that performs payment, clearing, and settlement activities in
    critical financial markets, contingency strategies align with existing guidance. 16
 c) The firm tests business continuity plans, reviews the execution of tests, and improves plans by
    incorporating lessons learned. Business continuity tests and exercises incorporate
    dependencies of critical operations and core business lines on third parties. When possible, the
    firm participates in disaster recovery and business continuity testing with third parties
    associated with critical operations and core business lines.
 d) The firm confirms that functional testing procedures for assessing the ability of a firm’s IT
    systems to deliver minimum service capacity to critical operations and core business lines are
    consistent with the firm’s business continuity objectives. The firm’s business continuity
    management considers and incorporates scenarios in which service capacity and business
    continuity objectives cannot be met.
 e) The firm identifies and manages the availability of personnel who are essential to the execution
    of the firm’s critical operations and core business lines.17 The firm has (an) alternate site(s)
    that has sufficient resources (including personnel), technology capabilities, and functionality
    to execute the firm’s critical operations and core business lines in the event of a disruption. 18




12
    See FFIEC Information Technology Examination Handbook booklet “Business Continuity Management,” November
   2019, which describes principles and practices for IT and operations for safety and soundness, consumer financial
   protection, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
13
    Guidance includes SR letter 03-9 and OCC Bulletin 2003-14 “Interagency White Paper on Sound Practices to
   Strengthen the Resilience of the U.S. Financial System” (April 8, 2003) which outline practices for geographic
   diversity and resiliency of data centers and operations, as well as recovery and resumption time objectives and related
   testing standards for firms that perform payment, clearing, and settlement activities in critical financial markets. Per
   this guidance, the term recovery refers to the restoration of clearing and settlement activities after a wide-scale
   disruption; resumption refers to the capacity to accept and process new transactions and payments after a wide-scale
   disruption.
14
    See section III.A. “Business Impact Analysis” of the FFIEC Information Technology Examination Handbook booklet
   “Business Continuity Management,” November 2019, which describes the business impact analysis process.
15
    See Sections II.A. “Board and Senior Management Responsibilities” of the FFIEC Information Technology
   Examination Handbook booklet “Business Continuity Management” November 2019.
16
    Refer to SR letter 03-9 and OCC Bulletin 2003-14 “Interagency White Paper on Sound Practices to Strengthen the
   Resilience of the U.S. Financial System” (April 8, 2003).
17
    See Section IV.A.4 “Personnel” of the FFIEC Information Technology Examination Handbook booklet “Business
   Continuity Management” November 2019.
18
    See Section V.C “Facilities and Infrastructure” of the FFIEC Information Technology Examination Handbook
   booklet “Business Continuity Management”, November 2019.
                                                            5
      The alternate site(s) is (are) located at a sufficient geographical distance from the primary site
      and has (have) a distinct risk profile.
 f) The firm's business continuity management includes remote-access contingencies that allow
    personnel to continue delivering the firm’s critical operations and core business lines through
    a disruption.19 The management of contingencies prioritize critical operations and core
    business lines and provide personnel adequate connectivity, communication, and collaboration
    tools, essential technology resources, and access to network systems. These contingencies
    incorporate transitioning personnel back to normal operations following the resolution of a
    disruption.20
 g) The firm trains essential personnel who have responsibility for executing critical operations
    and core business lines to perform back-up roles should a disruption occur. The firm
    implements an operational resilience training and awareness program to evaluate the
    effectiveness of personnel-related business continuity arrangements and the program is
    improved as shortcomings are identified.
 h) The firm’s recovery or resolution planning, if applicable, is integrated into its governance and
    operating processes and is part of business-as-usual activities, including firm-wide risk
    management processes. In the context of operational resilience, recovery or resolution planning
    is understood as complementary to, and linked with, existing risk management and business
    continuity management processes.
 i) The firm leverages information contained in its recovery or resolution plans, where applicable,
    to identify options to respond to a wide range of severe but plausible internal and external
    stress scenarios. The firm similarly leverages the identification of interconnections and
    interdependencies among critical operations and core business lines affiliates, subsidiaries, and
    third parties.

 4.       Third-Party Risk Management

 In recent years, firms have made increasing use of third parties to deliver a variety of services,
 including those that are integral to critical operations and core business lines. Recognition of third-
 party risk is vital to operational resilience, especially if outsourcing arrangements involve entities
 that perform critical operations or core business activities. In keeping with existing regulations and
 guidance, the practices outlined below promote sound management of third-party risk.21




19
    The firm’s operational risk management and independent internal (or external) audit functions also take into account
   remote-access and any other related conditions.
20
    See Section IV.A.4 “Personnel” of the FFIEC Information Technology Examination Handbook booklet “Business
   Continuity Management”, November 2019.
21
    Federal Reserve SR 13-19 “Guidance on Managing Outsourcing Risk” (December 5, 2013); OCC Bulletin 2013- 29
   “Third Party Relationships: Risk Management Guidance” (October 30, 2013); Third Party Risk: Guidance for
   Managing Third Party Risk,” FDIC FIL-44-2008 (June 6, 2008).
                                                            6
 a) The firm identifies and analyzes third-party risk of critical operations and core business lines.
    It prioritizes third-party dependencies that are most significant to the firm and understands,
    manages, and mitigates its risks.
 b) The firm establishes relationships with third parties through formal agreements.22 The firm’s
    manages and monitors the performance of third parties against its service requirements and its
    tolerance for disruption.
 c) The firm periodically reviews reports of systems and controls and summaries of test results or
    other equivalent assessments of third parties. It establishes processes and benchmarks for
    monitoring a third party’s ability to continue to deliver services during disruptions. 23
 d) The firm verifies that third parties have sound risk management practices and controls in place
    that serve to identify and mitigate hazards to operations and are consistent with the firm’s
    tolerance for disruption.
 e) The firm addresses key third-party concerns to the extent that these concerns affect the firm’s
    operational resilience (e.g., through due diligence, contract negotiations, ongoing monitoring,
    and termination of contracts).
 f) The firm identifies risks of third parties that provide it with public and critical infrastructure
    services, such as energy and telecommunications. The firm has processes to manage
    disruptions of these services and updates these processes as appropriate to stay within its
    tolerance for disruption.
 g) The firm identifies other third parties that may be available to assist in the event its current
    third parties are unable to continue delivering services. The firm assesses the substitutability
    of third parties that provide services supporting the firm’s critical operations and core business
    lines including the possibility of bringing a service back in-house.

 5.       Scenario Analysis

 Scenario analysis helps a firm to develop, validate, and calibrate a firm’s tolerance for disruption.
 Firms may integrate the analysis with disaster recovery and business continuity management for
 use in assessing operational resilience. In keeping with existing regulations and guidance, the
 practices outlined below promote effective scenario analysis.24



22
    12 U.S.C. 1867(c)(2) requires firms to notify the Agencies of service relationships.
23
    FFIEC Interagency Statement on Pandemic Planning (March 6, 2020) and FFIEC Information Technology
   Examination Handbook booklet “Business Continuity Management”, November 2019.
24
    The Interagency Guidelines Establishing Standards for Safety and Soundness, adopted pursuant to Section 39 of the
   Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831p-1), set forth standards for institutions to have systems that provide for
   an effective risk assessment that identifies the nature, scope, and risk of its activities, products, and balance- sheet
   components. Depository institutions should refer to the Interagency Guidelines adopted by their primary federal
   regulator as follows: For national banks and federal savings associations, Appendix A to 12 CFR part 30; for state
   member banks, Appendix D-1 to 12 CFR part 208; and for state nonmember banks, state savings associations, and
   insured state-licensed branches of foreign banks, Appendix A to 12 CFR part 364. See also SR 15-19 Federal Reserve
   Supervisory Assessment of Capital Planning and Positions for Large and Noncomplex Firms, Appendix G (December
   18, 2015).



                                                            7
a) Operational risks identified by the firm’s operational risk management function, independent
   internal (or external) audit function, business continuity management, and recovery or
   resolution planning activities should be incorporated, as applicable, into severe but plausible
   scenarios affecting the firm’s critical operations and core business lines. The firm designs the
   scenarios so that they may be used to test the firm’s tolerance for disruption.
b) The firm maintains a robust governance framework and independent review function to
   oversee the integrity and consistency of the scenario development process.
c) In designing scenarios, the firm leverages both the mapped interconnections and
   interdependencies of its critical operations and core business lines including its third-party
   risks, set forth in its recovery or resolution plans, as well as relevant business impact analyses.
d) The firm uses scenario analysis to back-test against past instances of severe disruptions that
   have arisen from various disruptions. The results of back-testing are used to refine scenarios
   and increase their effectiveness for future.
e) The firm identifies potential risk transmission channels, concentrations, and vulnerabilities by
   analyzing the interconnections and interdependencies within and across its critical operations
   and core business lines considering third-party risks. The information that is obtained from
   these analyses informs the firm’s tolerance for disruption.
6.         Secure and Resilient Information System Management

Secure and resilient information systems underpin the operational resilience of a firm’s critical
operations and core business lines. The appropriate implementation, use, and protection of
information systems can help a firm identify and detect risks to operational resilience. They also
enhance its ability to withstand disruptions or failures and facilitate the flow of information to
enable effective decision-making during a disruption. In keeping with existing regulations and
guidance, the practices outlined below promote secure and resilient information systems. 25
Additional sound practices on cyber risk management are provided in Appendix A.

a) Information systems, including elements that depend on third parties, supporting the firm’s
   critical operations and core business lines are subject to robust risk identification, protection,
   detection, and response and recovery programs that are regularly tested. Information systems
   incorporate appropriate situational awareness and provide management with relevant
   information on a timely basis.
b) The firm routinely applies and evaluates the effectiveness of processes and controls to protect
   the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and overall security of the firm’s data and
   information systems.
c) The firm establishes controls to safeguard the integrity and availability of critical data against
   the impact of destructive malware, including ransomware, or other similar threats. Recovery




25
     Consistent with FFIEC Information Technology Examination Handbook, November 15, 2019, revised December
     12, 2019.

                                                      8
        from such incidents may include use of protocols for secure, immutable, off-line storage of
        critical data.
 d) The firm reviews information systems and controls on a regular basis against common industry
    standards and best practices. The firm also regularly reviews and updates its systems and
    controls for security against evolving threats including cyber threats and emerging or new
    technologies.
 e) The firm may benefit from use of a standardized tool that is aligned with common industry
    standards and best practices to assess its cybersecurity preparedness as described in Appendix
    A.

 7.         Surveillance and Reporting

 Operational resilience entails ongoing surveillance and reporting of operational risks and
 dissemination of that information to the board of directors and relevant stakeholders across the
 firm. In keeping with existing regulations and guidance, the practices outlined below promote
 sound surveillance and reporting. 26

 a) The firm identifies and monitors ongoing exposure to operational risk relative to its risk
    appetite and tolerance for disruption. The firm establishes and maintains appropriate
    communication and coordination procedures to inform all relevant areas of the firm’s ongoing
    exposures.
 b) The firm detects in a timely manner anomalous activity that could lead to a disruption affecting
    the firm’s critical operations and core business lines, and it assesses the potential impact of the
    activity together with the effectiveness of protective measures.
 c) The firm conducts continuous surveillance and reporting to senior management and the board
    of directors that provides sufficient data and information for timely and appropriate decisions
    regarding measures to respond to a disruption.




26
     See Section IV.B “Communications” of the FFIEC Information Technology Examination Handbook booklet
     “Business Continuity Management”, November 2019.
                                                      9
                                                       Appendix A

                                 Sound Practices for Cyber Risk Management

 To manage cyber risk and assess cybersecurity preparedness of its critical operations, core business
 lines and other operations, services, and functions firms may choose to use standardized tools that
 are aligned with common industry standards and best practices. Some of the tools that firms can
 choose from include the FFIEC Cybersecurity Assessment Tool, the National Institute of
 Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework (NIST), the Center for Internet Security
 Critical Security Controls, and the Financial Services Sector Coordinating Council Cybersecurity
 Profile.27 While the agencies do not endorse the use of any particular tool, Table 1 below presents
 a collection of sound practices for cyber risk management, aligned to NIST and augmented to
 emphasize governance and third-party risk management.



     Table 1: Sound Practices for Cyber Risk Management
       Categories                                                 Attributes

                     The firm’s risk appetite and tolerance for disruption reflect the scope and level
                     of cyber risk the firm is willing to accept or avoid for its critical operations and
                     core business lines.28
                     The firm establishes, implements, and manages cyber risk management
                     processes for its critical operations and core business lines and integrates them
                     into operational risk management processes.
                     The firm has established cybersecurity processes to support operating within
       Governance its risk appetite and tolerance for disruption.
                     The firm has designated roles and responsibilities for cyber risk management,
                     including an individual responsible for cybersecurity for the firm.
                     The firm has a cybersecurity program that implements, monitors, and updates
                     existing processes. The cybersecurity program is continually monitored and
                     improved.
                     The firm’s independent risk management and independent internal (or
                     external) audit function provides for appropriate oversight of the cybersecurity
                     program.
                     The firm identifies and manages data, personnel, devices, systems, third parties
                     and facilities that enable its critical operations and core business lines.
      Identification
                     The firm understands the cybersecurity risks to its critical operations and core
                     business lines, and their underlying data, personnel, devices, systems, third
                     parties, and facilities associated with them.




27
    See FFIEC Encourages Standardized Approach to Assessing Cybersecurity Preparedness, August 26, 2019,
   (https://www.ffiec.gov/news/press-releases/2019/pr-08-28).
28
    The firm’s operational risk appetite statements are discussed in the governance section of the operational resilience
   sound practices.


                                                            10
                           The firm limits access to physical and logical assets and related facilities for its
                           critical operations and core business lines to authorized users, processes, and
                           devices, and manages access consistent with the assessed risk of
                           unauthorized access to activities and transactions that require authorization.
                           The firm provides cybersecurity awareness education especially to personnel
                           engaged in the operations of critical operations and core business lines,
                           including those from third parties and adequately trains them to perform their
                           information security-related duties and responsibilities consistent with related
                           processes and agreements.
                           The firm manages information and data consistent with its risk appetite and
                           tolerance for disruption to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability
                           of data and systems.
                           The firm maintains security processes that address purpose, scope, roles,
                           responsibilities, management commitment, and coordination among
                           organizational entities; and processes and uses them to manage protection of
                           information systems and assets.
                           The firm encrypts data used in the delivery of critical operations and core
                           business lines. The firm protects data at “rest” and “in transit” commensurate
                           with the criticality and sensitivity of the information.
                           The firm creates backups of critical data and regularly tests those backups for
                           completeness and reliability.
        Protection         The firm disposes critical assets in a secure manner in order to prevent
                           unauthorized recovery of sensitive information.
                           The firm manages configuration baselines that incorporate its information
                           systems resilience requirements. The management of configuration changes
                           causes minimal disruption to the delivery of critical operations and core
                           business lines.
                           The firm maintains and repairs industrial control29 and information system
                           components consistent with policies and procedures.
                           The firm’s information systems architecture for critical operations and core
                           business lines incorporates the firm’s cyber resilience requirements and is
                           secure by design.           The firm also accounts for interdependency,
                           interconnectivity, scale, and complexity risks.
                           The firm has and enforces defined processes for technology acquisition,
                           development, testing, and integration that incorporate the firm’s resilience
                           requirements throughout the processes’ lifecycles.
                           The firm upgrades or replaces information system components before
                           technical support is no longer available from the developer, vendor, or
                           manufacturer.
                           Technical security solutions are used to manage the security and resilience of
                           systems and assets, consistent with related policies, procedures, and
                           agreements.



29
     Firms often use industrial controls systems to automate heating, ventilation, and cooling systems, power systems, etc.
     According to NIST, industrial control systems are information systems used to control industrial processes such as
     manufacturing, product handling, production, and distribution.
     https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/industrial_control_system.
                                                              11
              Anomalous activity is detected in a timely manner and the potential impact
              (including financial impact) of anomalous events is analyzed and understood.
  Detection   Information systems and assets are monitored at discrete intervals to identify
              cybersecurity events and verify the effectiveness of protective measures.
              Detection processes and procedures are maintained and tested to ensure timely
              action is taken in response to anomalous events.
              Response processes and procedures are executed and maintained for timely
              response to detected cybersecurity incidents.
              The firm coordinates response activities with internal and external
              stakeholders, as appropriate, including external support from regulatory and
              law enforcement agencies.
  Response    The firm conducts analysis to ensure effective response and to support
              recovery activities.
              The firm performs activities to prevent expansion of a disruption, mitigate its
              effects, and resolve the incident.
              The firm improves response activities by incorporating lessons learned from
              current and previous detection/response activities.
              The firm executes and maintains business continuity and disaster recovery
              plans, processes and procedures to support timely restoration of systems or
              assets affected by cybersecurity incidents.
  Recovery    The firm improves recovery plans and processes by incorporating lessons
              learned into future activities.
              The firm coordinates restoration activities with internal and external parties
              such as internet service providers, owners of compromised systems, other
              incident response teams, and vendors.
              The firm manages the risks to its critical operations and core business lines, and
              monitors the effectiveness of controls associated with them, regardless of
              whether the firm performs the activity internally or through a third party.
              The firm engages in robust planning and due diligence to identify risks related
              to third parties and establishes processes to measure, monitor, and control the
              risks associated with them. The process for risk identification and monitoring
              controls effectiveness may include testing or auditing of security controls with
              the third party.
Third-party   Contracts between the firm and third parties are drafted to define clearly which
    risk      party is responsible for configuring and managing system access rights,
management    configuration capabilities, and deployment of services and information assets.
              Relationships with third parties include sound risk management practices to
              identify and mitigate hazards. The firm employs controls to verify that resilient
              operational processes are in place at the third party and consistent with the firm’s
              internal standards.
              The firm has processes for validating that third-party systems used for
              delivering critical operations and core business lines will be operational during
              disruptions or able to return to operation in accordance with the firm’s
              tolerance for disruption.

                                            12
 Appendix B Glossary of Definitions

 Business continuity management. Refers to measures that promote the continuous operation of a
 firm or financial market in the event of a disruption or crisis.

 Core business lines. Those business lines of the firm, including associated operations, services,
 functions and support, that, in the view of the firm upon failure would result in a material loss of
 revenue, profit, or franchise value.

 Critical operations. Those operations of the firm, including associated services, functions and
 support, the failure or discontinuance of which would pose a threat to the financial stability of the
 United States.

 Cyber incident. An incident that jeopardizes the cybersecurity of an information system or the
 information the system processes, stores or transmits or that violates cybersecurity procedures.

 Cyber risk. Risk of financial loss, operational disruption, or damage, from the failure of the digital
 technologies employed for informational and/or operational functions introduced to a system via
 electronic means from the unauthorized access, use, disruption, modification, or destruction of the
 system.30

 Essential personnel. Essential personnel are individuals, including those from third parties, whose
 availability is necessary for the delivery of a firm’s critical operations and core business lines.

 Information systems. A set of applications, services, information technology assets or other
 information-handling components, which includes the operating environment.

 Management information systems. A firms’ comprehensive processes, supported by computer-
 based systems that provide the information necessary to manage the firm. These include systems
 and applications for risk management.

 Material entity. A subsidiary or foreign office of a firm that is significant to the activities of an
 identified critical operation or core business line, or is financially or operationally significant to
 the resolution of the firm.

 Operational resilience. The ability to deliver operations, including critical operations and core
 business lines through a disruption from any hazard. It is the outcome of effective operational risk
 management combined with sufficient financial and operational resources to prepare, adapt,
 withstand, and recover from disruptions.

 Operational risk. The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people,
 and systems, or from external events. This definition includes legal risk, but excludes strategic risk.




30
     As defined by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (https://csrc.nist.gov/glossary/term/cyber_risk).



                                                              13
 Risk appetite. The aggregate level and types of risk the board and senior management are willing
 to assume to achieve a firm’s strategic business objectives, consistent with applicable capital,
 liquidity, and other requirements and constraints.

 Third parties. Entities that have a business arrangement with a firm. Third-party relationships
 include activities that involve outsourced products and services, use of independent consultants,
 networking arrangements, merchant payment processing services, services provided by affiliates
 and subsidiaries, joint ventures, and other business arrangements where the firm has an ongoing
 relationship or may have responsibility for the associated records.

 Tolerance for disruption. Tolerance for disruption is determined by a firm’s risk appetite for
 weathering disruption from operational risks considering its risk profile and the capabilities of its
 supporting operational environment. A firm’s tolerance for disruption is informed by existing
 regulations and guidance31 and by the analysis of a range of severe but plausible scenarios that
 would affect its critical operations and core business lines.




31
      Such as FRB SR Letter 03-9 and OCC Bulletin 2003-14 “Interagency White Paper on Sound Practices to Strengthen
     the Resilience of the U.S. Financial System” (April 8, 2003).



                                                           14
