                                          BOARD OF GOVERNORS
                                                       OF THE
                                       FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
                                          WASHINGTON, D.C. 20551

                                                                                    DIVISION OF BANKING
                                                                                    SUPERVISION AND REGULATION



        On June 23, 2025, the Board announced that                                  SR 10-6
        reputational risk will no longer be a component of                          March 17, 2010
        examination programs in its supervision of banks.
                                                                                    Revised August 1, 2023

    In August 2023, an addendum was attached to this letter to reinforce that depository
    institutions should maintain actionable contingency funding plans. A supervised banking
    organization may send questions regarding the addendum via the Board’s public website
    (https://www.federalreserve.gov/apps/contactus/feedback.aspx). The content of the letter has
    not been revised.

TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF SUPERVISION
  AT EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK

SUBJECT: Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management

        Attached is an interagency policy statement approved by the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System and the other supervisors of U.S. depository institutions. 1 This policy
statement provides guidance on sound practices for managing the funding and liquidity risks of
depository institutions. The practices set forth in this guidance are entirely consistent with
established Federal Reserve guidance contained in the Commercial Bank Examination Manual
and the Trading and Capital-Markets Activities Manual. The interagency guidance is also
consistent with the principles of sound liquidity risk management issued in September 2008 by
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision titled Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk
Management and Supervision. 2 Therefore, this interagency guidance represents the formal
codification of international supervisory guidance and provides a unified set of supervisory
expectations among the U.S. supervisors.

        The guidance articulates the process that depository institutions should follow in
appropriately identifying, measuring, monitoring, and controlling their funding and liquidity
risks. In particular, the guidance re-emphasizes the importance of cash flow projections,

1
 The other financial regulators are the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, Office of Thrift Supervision, and National Credit Union Administration, in conjunction with the
Conference of State Bank Supervisors.
2
    See the Bank for International Settlements website: http://www.bis.org/

                                                                                                          Page 1 of 4
diversified funding sources, stress testing, a cushion of liquid assets, and a formal, well-
developed contingency funding plan as primary tools for measuring and managing funding and
liquidity risks. The Federal Reserve expects all supervised financial institutions to manage their
liquidity risk using processes and systems that are commensurate with their complexity, risk
profile, and scope of operations.

Scope of Application

        The interagency guidance targets funding and liquidity risk management at insured
depository institutions, including state member banks. The basic principles presented in this
policy statement also apply to bank holding companies (BHCs), which should manage and
control aggregate risk exposures on a consolidated basis, while recognizing legal distinctions and
possible obstacles to cash movements among subsidiaries.

        BHCs (including financial holding companies) should develop and maintain liquidity
management processes and funding programs that are consistent with their complexity, risk
profile, and scope of operations. Appropriate liquidity risk management is especially important
for BHCs since liquidity difficulties can easily spread to both depository and non-depository
subsidiaries, particularly in cases of similarly named companies where customers may not
always understand the legal distinctions between the holding company and subsidiaries. For this
reason, BHCs should ensure that liquidity is sufficient at all levels of the organization to fully
accommodate funding needs in periods of stress.

        Liquidity risk management processes and funding programs should take into full account
the institution’s lending, investment, and other activities and should ensure that adequate
liquidity is maintained at the parent holding company and each of its subsidiaries. These
processes and programs should fully incorporate real and potential constraints, including legal
and regulatory restrictions, on the transfer of funds among subsidiaries and between subsidiaries
and the parent holding company. BHC liquidity should be maintained at levels sufficient to fund
holding company and affiliate operations for an extended period of time in a stressed
environment when access to normal funding sources are disrupted without having a negative
impact on insured depository institution subsidiaries.

       Material nonbank subsidiaries, such as broker-dealers, are expected to have liquidity
management processes and funding programs that reflect the principles outlined in the attached
guidance and are consistent with the subsidiaries’ complexity, risk profile, and scope of
operations. A nonbank subsidiary that directly accesses market sources of funding and/or
manages specific funding programs should pay particular attention to:

       •   Maintaining sufficient liquidity, cash flow, and capital strength to service its debt
           obligations and cover fixed charges;
       •   Assessing the potential that funding strategies could undermine public confidence in
           the liquidity or stability of subsidiary depository institutions; and
       •   Ensuring the adequacy of policies and practices addressing the stability of funding
           and integrity of the institution’s liquidity risk profile as evidenced by funding


                                                                                           Page 2 of 4
           mismatches and the degree of dependence on potentially volatile sources of short-
           term funding.
        The Federal Reserve’s Trading and Capital-Markets Activities Manual and Bank Holding
Company Supervision Manual contain more in-depth discussions of the specific considerations
surrounding the principles of safe and sound liquidity risk management of BHCs, as well as legal
and regulatory restrictions surrounding the transfer of funds between holding companies and
their subsidiaries.

        The general principles presented in this policy statement also apply to foreign banking
organizations (FBOs) operating in the United States. The U.S. operations of FBOs are expected
to have appropriate liquidity risk management processes in place that are consistent with
established international standards. Supervisory expectations for the U.S. operations of FBOs are
the same as those for comparable domestic organizations. FBO branches and agencies are also
expected to comply with the basic tenets of sound liquidity risk management with full
recognition that the application of these principles depends significantly on the specific business
models, governance structures, funding approaches, and liquidity risk profiles of the operations.
For example, funding dependencies between a branch and home office, and governance
structures without boards of directors, may preclude compliance with some basic principles as
specifically articulated in the attached guidance for standalone legal entities. In such cases,
appropriate mitigating controls should be in place.

        Liquidity risk for the U.S. operations of FBOs should be managed with processes and
systems appropriate for the U.S. entities’ size, complexity, risk profile, and scope of activities.
Regardless of the scope or scale of U.S. operations, the risks undertaken are expected to be
managed with: 1) effective governance and management oversight as appropriate; 2) adequate
policies, procedures, and limits on risk taking; and 3) strong management information systems
for measuring, monitoring, reporting, and controlling liquidity risks. While elements of these
risk management processes may be implemented locally or outside of the United States, the
Federal Reserve expects to have ready access to the information necessary to maintain an
understanding and assessment of these functions.

       More detail regarding supervisory expectations for safe and sound liquidity risk
management of the U.S. operations of FBOs are contained in SR letter 08-9/CA letter 08-12,
“Consolidated Supervision of Bank Holding Companies and the Combined U.S. Operations of
Foreign Banking Organizations,” and in the Examination Manual for U.S. Branches and
Agencies of Foreign Banking Organizations.

Conclusion

       Reserve Banks are asked to distribute this letter to financial institutions supervised by the
Federal Reserve in their districts, as well as to their own supervisory and examination staff.
Questions on the attached guidance or the Federal Reserve’s supervisory approach to liquidity
risk management at supervised institutions should be addressed to: Jim Embersit, Deputy
Associate Director, Market and Liquidity Risk, at (202) 452-5249; Ricardo Crumble,
Supervisory Financial Analyst, Market and Liquidity Risk, at (202) 728-5852; and Mary Arnett,
Supervisory Financial Analyst, Market and Liquidity Risk, at (202) 721-4534.


                                                                                           Page 3 of 4
                                    Patrick M. Parkinson
                                          Director


Attachment:
   •   Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management
   •   Addendum to the Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk
       Management: Importance of Contingency Funding Plans (July 2023)

Cross Reference:
   •   SR letter 08-9/CA letter 08-12, “Consolidated Supervision of Bank Holding Companies
       and the Combined U.S. Operations of Foreign Banking Organizations”
Supersedes:
   •   SR letter 90-20, “Bank Holding Company Funding and Liquidity”




                                                                                    Page 4 of 4
