                                         BOARD OF GOVERNORS
                                                         OF THE


                                      FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
                                                  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20551




                                                                           DIVISION OF SUPERVISION
                                                                           AND REGULATION



                                                                           SR 26-2
                                                                           April 17, 2026
TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF SUPERVISION
  AT EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK

SUBJECT: Revised Guidance on Model Risk Management


Applicability: This letter is expected to be most relevant to banking organizations with over $30
billion in total assets regulated by the Federal Reserve.


        The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency (OCC), and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) (the “agencies”) are issuing
the attached Revised Guidance on Model Risk Management, which supersedes and replaces SR
letter 11-7, Guidance on Model Risk Management (issued April 4, 2011) and SR letter 21-8,
Interagency Statement on Model Risk Management for Bank Systems Supporting Bank Secrecy
Act/Anti-Money Laundering Compliance (issued April 9, 2021). This revised guidance reflects
supervisory experience and industry feedback accumulated over the past fifteen years, as well as
significant advancements in modeling practices.
        Based on supervisory experience and industry feedback since the issuance of SR 11-7, the
agencies have updated the model risk management guidance to clarify model risk management
principles and to emphasize a risk-based approach to model risk management that is tailored to a
banking organization’s model risk profile and the size and complexity of its operations. The revised
guidance highlights sound principles for effective model risk management while recognizing that
model risk management practices appropriately vary among banking organizations based on their
specific risk profiles and model usage.
        Reserve Banks are asked to distribute this letter to the supervised banking organizations in
their districts and to appropriate supervisory staff. Banking organizations may provide any
feedback or send questions via the Board’s public website. 1



1
    See http://www.federalreserve.gov/apps/contactus/feedback.aspx.
                                     Randall D. Guynn
                                          Director
                           Division of Supervision and Regulation

Attachment:
   •   Revised Guidance on Model Risk Management
Supersedes:
   •   SR letter 11-7, “Guidance on Model Risk Management” (April 4, 2011).
   •   SR letter 21-8, “Interagency Statement on Model Risk Management for Bank Systems
       Supporting Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Compliance” (April 9, 2021).
                                                                                     SR Letter 26-2
                                                                                        Attachment


                                             Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
                                                       Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
                                                     Office of the Comptroller of the Currency



April 17, 2026

                         SUPERVISORY GUIDANCE ON
                         MODEL RISK MANAGEMENT

I. INTRODUCTION

       Use of models within the banking and financial services industries continues to grow in

complexity and scope. Advances in technology along with increased competition have driven

banking organizations to leverage innovative approaches to improve efficiencies, better mitigate

risks, and help maximize profits. Continued use of models is essential to maintaining the

competitiveness of banking organizations in the financial system.

       Use of models also can present substantial risk. Such risk, generally referred to as “model

risk” for purposes of this guidance, can lead to financial loss, errors in financial statements and

reporting, and flawed financial and risk management decisions, among other types of risk events.

Model risk can be mitigated through active and appropriate risk management, recognizing that

the relevance of model risk depends on the nature, scale, and use of the models in relation to the

associated business risks.

       This guidance highlights sound principles for effective model risk management. As

reflected in this guidance, model risk management practices vary from banking organization to

banking organization. Each banking organization ultimately is responsible for adopting model



                                                  1
risk management practices that are appropriate and effective for managing the specific risks the

banking organization faces or is likely to face.

        There are a variety of ways for a banking organization to structure model risk

management practices. Not all models present the same level of risk, and a similar model at two

different banking organizations may present different risks. As such, practices that are

appropriate and effective for one banking organization may be inappropriate and ineffective for a

banking organization with a different risk profile or that uses a model for a different purpose.

        Although this guidance may be useful for any type of model, the general expectation is

that it will be most useful for models supporting a banking organization’s significant business

lines, operations, services, and functions. This guidance does not set forth enforceable standards

or prescriptive requirements; accordingly, non-compliance with this guidance will not result in

supervisory criticism against a banking organization. 1

II. PURPOSE AND SCOPE

        Based on supervisory experience and industry feedback, as well as technological

advancements in modeling over the past several years, the Office of the Comptroller of the

Currency, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and Federal Deposit Insurance

Corporation (the “agencies”) are issuing this revised model risk management guidance to clarify

model risk management principles, and to set forth a risk-based approach to model risk

management, tailored to a banking organization’s model risk profile and the size and complexity

of its operations.

        This guidance is expected to be most relevant to banking organizations with over $30



1
 See 12 CFR Part 4, Subpart F, Appendix A (OCC); 12 CFR Part 262, Appendix A (Board); 12 CFR Part 302,
Appendix A (FDIC). However, supervisory action may result for any violations of law or unsafe or unsound
practices stemming from insufficient management of model risk.


                                                      2
billion in total assets.2 Models used by banking organizations with total assets of $30 billion or

less typically are subject to internal risk management and governance practices appropriate for

the size and risk profile of these banking organizations, and generally excluding them from this

guidance is consistent with a tailored supervisory approach. However, in some situations, this

guidance also may be relevant to banking organizations with total assets of $30 billion or less

that have significant exposure to model risk because of the prevalence and complexity of their

models or because of activities outside the scope of traditional community banking.

         For the purposes of this guidance, the term “model” refers to a complex quantitative

method, system, or approach that applies statistical, economic, or financial theories to process

input data into quantitative estimates. The term “model” in this guidance excludes simple

arithmetic calculations, such as those found within spreadsheets, as well as deterministic rule-

based processes and software where there are no statistical, economic, or financial theories

underpinning their design or use. 3

III. OVERVIEW OF MODEL RISK AND MODEL RISK MANAGEMENT

         Models are simplified representations of real-world relationships among observed

characteristics, values, and events; they are based on assumptions that make them useful in

estimating values and predicting events, but which also can have limitations and create model

risk. The term “model risk” refers to the potential for adverse financial consequences associated

with models, which may result from decisions made based on model output. Model risk is

influenced by a model’s inherent risk, exposure, purpose, and use, each of which are discussed


2
  For a description of the banking organizations supervised by each agency, refer to the definition of “appropriate
Federal banking agency” in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)).
3
  Generative AI and agentic AI models are novel and rapidly evolving. As such, they are not within the scope of this
guidance. Nonetheless, a banking organization’s risk management and governance practices should guide the
determination of appropriate governance and controls for any tools, processes, or systems not covered in this
document. However, the principles described in this guidance apply to traditional statistical and quantitative models
and non-generative, non-agentic AI models.


                                                          3
below.

         A model’s inherent risk reflects several fundamental factors, such as the assumptions

made in developing the model, the model’s complexity, the quality of inputs for the model, and

data constraints. Inherent risk increases with model complexity and the criticality or number of

assumptions necessary, among other factors.

         Model exposure refers to the significance of the model output to a banking organization’s

business decisions, which tends to be greater for models affecting larger portfolios or having a

larger business impact. Model exposure can be quantitatively measured (e.g., by portfolio size).

         Model purpose is a qualitative consideration that involves the nature and importance of

the models used by banking organizations. For example, models developed to help meet

regulatory requirements or manage a banking organization’s financial risk exposures are

generally considered to be of greater risk than models that are not used for such purposes.

         Model purpose, together with model exposure, determines model materiality. Assessing

risk based on model materiality is an important consideration for sound model risk management.

Banking organizations may deem certain models immaterial based on model exposure and

purpose. In those cases, model risk management may consist of identifying those models and

monitoring model performance and conditions under which the use of those models may become

material to the banking organization in the future. In contrast, models deemed of higher

materiality by the banking organization—either through model exposure or purpose—warrant

more comprehensive and rigorous oversight.

         The overall magnitude of model risk reflects a model’s inherent risk in the context of

model materiality (i.e., model exposure and purpose). However, even a fundamentally sound

model producing accurate outputs consistent with the model’s design objective can exhibit high




                                                  4
model risk if it is misapplied or misused.

       Sound practice involves assessing model risk both individually and in aggregate.

Aggregate risk reflects interactions and dependencies among models; reliance on common

assumptions, data, or methodologies; and any other factors that could adversely affect several

models and their outputs simultaneously.

       Sound model risk management also involves “effective challenge,” which refers to the

critical analysis conducted by objective experts who evaluate model risk and effect appropriate

changes throughout the model lifecycle, from model development to ongoing monitoring.

Effective challenge is performed by individuals with the appropriate expertise to conduct a

critical and objective challenge, sufficient independence to maintain objectivity, as well as the

organizational standing and influence to effect any change.

       The size and complexity of the banking organization’s operations also may influence the

range of model risk management. A banking organization with simple operations may not

conduct model risk management with the same rigor as an organization with relatively more

complex operations. Furthermore, a banking organization may tailor portions of its model risk

management practices that are relevant to the risks posed by a particular model and with a level

of rigor commensurate with that risk. Effective model risk management therefore warrants

consideration of model risk in the context of the broader business risks that models support or

influence.

IV. MODEL DEVELOPMENT AND MODEL USE

Model Development

       Sound model development activities are aligned with model purpose, business use, and

banking organization policy. Model development is not purely a technical exercise. The




                                                 5
developer’s judgment influences the model’s conceptual design and soundness, inputs,

assumptions, and methodology, all of which affect a model’s inherent risk. Because model

development is often multidisciplinary, tailored to actual use, and involves significant

subjectivity throughout its lifecycle, sound development practices are important for effective

model risk management.

       An effective development process generally begins with a clear statement of purpose to

maximize the likelihood that model development is aligned with the intended use. This

fundamental step supports decision-making throughout the development lifecycle, including the

selection of data, methodologies, and testing approaches.

       Input from model users can enhance model development by providing business context

and practical insights. Business managers affected by model outcomes may raise questions about

the methods or assumptions, particularly when the outcomes are unexpected. Constructive

engagement around model design and assumptions strengthens both model understanding and

model quality.

       Model testing is a core component of model development that evaluates whether a model

performs as intended. Testing may include a range of activities, from out-of-sample and out-of-

time testing, to a comparison of alternative assumptions and methodologies, to a critical

assessment of data quality, relevance, and inputs. Testing may be performed by model

developers in collaboration with model users. The specific approach depends on the model’s

characteristics. The rigor of effective testing is commensurate with model complexity and

materiality. For models that have relatively less material impact or for banking organizations

with relatively less complex operations, model testing may be more limited in scope.

Model Use




                                                 6
       Effective model use depends on a clear understanding of a model’s limitations. Model

use enables ongoing performance assessment as conditions evolve. User feedback provides

business insights that enhance future development. Constructive engagement, particularly around

model design, assumptions, and outcomes, strengthens both model understanding and model

quality. Using a model beyond its intended purpose introduces additional uncertainty and risk.

When extending a model’s use beyond its original application, sound practice involves

considering additional analysis of the new usage and its limitations, along with review of

existing controls to manage the resulting risk.

V. MODEL VALIDATION AND MONITORING

       Model validation evaluates whether models perform as expected and includes an

assessment of a model’s reliability and its limitations. The nature and rigor of validation generally

align with the model’s approach, use, and materiality. Sound validation identifies model

limitations and errors and clarifies appropriate use and whether corrective actions may be

warranted.

       Validation provides insight into the reliability of a given model, based on its underlying

assumptions, methods, data, and relevant theories, as appropriate. This understanding helps

characterize the source and extent of the model risk. Validation can reveal performance

deterioration over time and inform judgments about acceptable performance ranges. When

performance deviates meaningfully from expectations, banking organizations generally consider

whether model adjustments, recalibration, or redevelopment are warranted.

       The timing, nature, and frequency of validation activities vary based on model purpose,

model methodology, frequency and scope of model changes, data limitations, and other practical

constraints. Sound practice recognizes that validation approaches may differ across models based



                                                  7
on their characteristics and use. Validation generally occurs prior to a model’s first use.

However, certain circumstances (e.g., an urgent business need) may necessitate using the model

before validation is completed. In those cases, sound practice involves greater attention to the

model’s limitations when considering the appropriateness of its use, informing relevant

stakeholders of those limitations, and determining appropriate controls (e.g., placing limits on

model use or more closely monitoring its performance).

       The quality of validation process depends on the rigor and effectiveness of the review

rather than on organizational structure of the banking organization’s risk management function.

Technical knowledge and modeling expertise enable appropriate analysis, meaningful critique,

and sound judgment about model performance and risk.

       Even with sound modeling practices and rigorous validation, material model risk can

remain. Users of model output benefit from understanding and communicating limitations,

monitoring performance, periodically reviewing relevance, and supplementing model output

with complementary analysis and information.

Components of Model Validation

Conceptual Soundness

       Validating conceptual soundness involves assessing and documenting model design

(including key modeling choices, assumptions, qualitative judgments, and data selection),

construction, and developmental testing. While evaluating theoretical construction may be

important for some models, other assessments—such as interpretability measures or

benchmarking to other models—may be more practical for other models. Sound practice subjects

modeling aspects to critical analysis by evaluating both the quality and extent of developmental

evidence.



                                                  8
Outcomes Analysis

       Outcomes analysis compares model outputs to corresponding real-world outcomes to

assess model performance relative to model objectives and business use. Outcomes analysis and

other elements of the validation process may identify material errors or persistent deviations

outside of the banking organization’s established performance thresholds. In such cases, model

adjustment, recalibration, or redevelopment may be warranted.

       Outcomes analysis can take many forms, including testing conducted during model

development, reports or analysis performed as part of ongoing monitoring, or standalone

activities such as back-testing or outlier analysis. A banking organization’s approach depends on

the model’s objectives, methodology, and data availability. As part of model validation, sound

practice involves reviewing outcomes analysis to evaluate the reasonableness and

appropriateness of the results, with additional analysis and testing, if warranted. When a model’s

design relies substantially on expert judgment, quantitative outcomes analysis helps to evaluate

the quality of that judgment.

Ongoing Model Monitoring

       Ongoing model monitoring involves an evaluation of the extent to which a model is

performing as expected given potential changes in products, exposures, activities, clients, data

relevance, or market conditions. A model that no longer performs as expected may warrant

overlays, adjustment, or redevelopment of the model depending on a banking organization’s

model risk management policy as it pertains to model deterioration.

       An effective ongoing monitoring plan may also include regularly assessing any model

limitations at the development stage and over time, along with procedures for responding to any

issues that may occur, before and after a model is approved for use. The frequency and scope of




                                                 9
monitoring reports will depend on the nature of the model, the availability of new data or

modeling approaches, and model materiality.

VI. GOVERNANCE AND CONTROLS

       All components of the model lifecycle benefit from model governance that is supported

by clear policies and effective controls. Effective policies define risk management expectations

and establish a framework for assessing the magnitude of model risk and for applying model risk

management practices commensurate with that risk. Procedures support policy implementation

by establishing a monitoring and control process and specifying the allocation of resources to

that process. The nature and sophistication of a banking organization’s model governance is

typically informed by the extent and sophistication of model usage as well as the size and

complexity of the organization.

Roles and Responsibilities

       Model risk management benefits from clear roles and responsibilities with well-defined

accountability, including with respect to potential conflicts of interest (e.g., misalignment of

incentives between different reporting lines, such as model development and validation groups).

Sound governance practices delineate the individual(s) responsible for key activities throughout

the model lifecycle, from development through validation and ongoing monitoring. In cases

where internal audit is part of the banking organization’s model risk management practices,

internal audit would generally not duplicate model risk management activities such as model

development or validation. Instead, internal audit’s role is generally to evaluate whether the

model risk management practices are rigorous and effective and whether related policies are

implemented accordingly. For banking organizations that use external resources to help manage

model risk, sound practice involves maintaining proper oversight and integrating that work into




                                                 10
broader model risk management activities. Organizations benefit from clearly defining roles and

responsibilities when delegating these activities.

Model Inventory

       It is common industry practice for banking organizations to maintain a comprehensive set

of information for models under development or in use to support effective model risk

management. While the inventory may contain varying levels of information to reflect different

levels of model complexity and a banking organization’s overall level of model usage, an

effective model inventory includes sufficient information to understand model risks, so as to

support effective model risk management at the individual and aggregate levels.

Documentation

       Adequate documentation helps to support effective model risk management. For

example, documentation can help maximize the likelihood of continuity of operations, including

supporting the tracking of recommendations, responses, and exceptions; it can also be used to

more effectively help manage any model remediation efforts.

VII. VENDOR AND OTHER THIRD-PARTY PRODUCTS

       The widespread use of customized vendor and other third-party products—including

data, parameter values, or complete models—can present unique challenges for validation and

other model risk management activities. Additionally, because certain components may be

proprietary, banking organizations may not receive from the vendor the underlying code, data, or

methodology that they would have if a model were developed internally. Nevertheless, the

principles of model risk management remain applicable.

       An important element of model risk management is the validation of vendor products,

either by internal or outside parties. Sound practice includes developing an understanding of the



                                                 11
vendor model, including its conceptual soundness, design, development data, and performance.

Similarly, sound practice involves conducting ongoing monitoring and outcome analysis to

assess whether vendor models are accurate, remain fit for purpose, and continue to be reliable.

Such analysis can also be used to support any overlay or adjustment to model output. In cases

where vendor models are customized to fit a banking organization’s specific business needs,

sound practice also involves appropriately documenting, justifying, and evaluating adjustments

made to customize the model as part of model validation.




                                               12
