                                       BOARD OF GOVERNORS
                                                       OF THE

                                    FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
                                                WASHINGTON, D.C. 20551




                                                                                   DIVISION OF BANKING
                                                                                   SUPERVISION AND REGULATION



                                                                                   SR 14-8
                                                                                   September 25, 2014
                                                                                   Revised October 1, 2025


Revision history:
On October 1, 2025: This letter was revised to remove references to reputational risk.


TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF SUPERVISION
  AT EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK

SUBJECT: Consolidated Recovery Planning for Certain Large Domestic Bank Holding
Companies

Applicability: This guidance applies to eight domestic bank holding companies that may pose
elevated risk to U.S. financial stability.

        The Federal Reserve is issuing this letter to provide additional guidance regarding
recovery planning and recovery plans at certain large bank holding companies. This letter
supplements SR letter 12-17/CA letter 12-14, “Consolidated Supervision Framework for Large
Financial Institutions.” Recovery planning is central to ensuring the ongoing resiliency of a
firm’s consolidated operations and has been identified as a core area of supervisory focus for
achieving the objectives of the framework. A key objective is to enhance the resiliency of a firm
to adverse developments which, in turn, will lower the probability of its failure or inability to
serve as a financial intermediary.

Applicability

        This letter applies to eight domestic bank holding companies in the Large Institution
Supervision Coordinating Committee (LISCC) portfolio, as referenced by SR 12-17/CA 12-14. 1
The letter does not apply to the other financial institutions in the LISCC, Large Banking
Organizations, and Large Foreign Banking Organizations portfolios outlined in
SR 12-17/CA 12-14.
1
  These eight companies are (1) Bank of America Corporation; (2) Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, PLC;
(3) Citigroup, Inc.; (4) Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.; (5) JPMorgan Chase & Co.; (6) Morgan Stanley; (7) State Street
Corporation; and (8) Wells Fargo & Company.
                                                                                                         Page 1 of 6
Purpose of Recovery Planning

       At the onset of the recent financial crisis, many large financial institutions did not have
adequate plans in place to rapidly respond to severe stress. To address this gap in companies’
planning and to enhance their safety and soundness, the aforementioned domestic LISCC bank
holding companies should proactively plan and prepare for such events. The primary goal of
such recovery planning is to develop a menu of options that would enable a firm to respond to a
wide range of internal and external stresses 2 and maintain the confidence of market participants
without extraordinary governmental support.

        A firm is in recovery when it is experiencing or is likely to encounter considerable
financial distress but could reasonably return to a position of financial strength if appropriate
actions are taken in a timely manner. A firm in recovery has not yet deteriorated to the point
where resolution proceedings or bankruptcy are imminent. During this recovery phase, the firm
should be working closely with relevant supervisors.

Supervisory Expectations for Recovery Planning

         All firms subject to this letter should engage in recovery planning. A firm’s recovery
planning process should identify a range of options outlining actions that the firm could take to
remedy financial weakness and maintain market confidence without extraordinary governmental
support. The options should focus on the recovery of the consolidated organization and should
be consistent with any obligation to serve as a source of strength to subsidiary insured depository
institutions. 3

        A firm’s recovery planning process should identify options that, individually or in the
aggregate, provide the firm with a reasonable chance of being able to remedy financial weakness
and restore market confidence in the company without extraordinary official sector support. The
range of options should, at a minimum, include the possible sale, transfer, or disposal of
significant assets, portfolios, legal entities, or business lines.

       A firm’s recovery options should also be actionable, and impediments to their execution
and projected mitigation strategies should be identified in advance. Relevant impediments could
include, for example, legal and regulatory preconditions, interconnectivity among the firm’s
operations, tax consequences, market conditions, and other considerations. To be actionable,
recovery options should be executable within a reasonable period of time.

        A firm’s recovery planning process should identify a comprehensive range of recovery
options in order to prepare the firm to respond to a broad range of internal or external stresses of
different levels of severity. Further, a firm’s recovery planning process should consider the
2
  Internal stresses are those emerging from within the firm and can include, for example, significant financial losses,
fraud, portfolio shocks, accounting and tax issues, or any other firm-specific problems not emerging from outside
the firm. External stresses are those emerging from outside the firm and can include both firm-specific stresses such
as litigation or counterparty actions and market wide stresses including, for example, severe changes in debt or
equity valuations, currency rates, interest rates, or general economic conditions.
3
    See 12 CFR 225.4(a).
                                                                                                           Page 2 of 6
extreme end of the severity spectrum, where the firm is nearest to entering resolution
proceedings, and develop options for recovery from such circumstances. Because the cause of
future economic stress is unpredictable, a firm’s recovery planning process should identify a
range of options that allow it to execute strategies in a variety of market and economic
conditions, including in an environment where the firm is unable to access capital markets or
accrete capital through retained earnings.

        Firms subject to this letter should test the effectiveness of their recovery options under a
range of internal and external stresses. In developing their options, these firms should also
consider potential consequences for U.S. financial stability of executing each option, taking into
consideration impacts on counterparties, creditors, clients, depositors, and markets for specific
assets.

        To be effective, recovery planning should be integrated into a firm’s corporate
governance and operating processes. Such integration is essential for timely recognition of
financial distress, identification of recovery triggers, and identification of actionable and
comprehensive recovery options. Recovery planning should be part of business-as-usual
activities, including firm-wide risk-management processes. A firm’s menu of recovery options
should be kept current in order to position the firm to respond to challenges as they arise.
Recovery planning should be complementary to, and linked with, existing contingency, strategic,
and resolution planning efforts to ensure that the firm is prepared to recognize and respond to
both financial and operational weakness. Recovery planning should also take into account
potential options from existing financial contingency plans, such as the firm’s contingency
funding plan and capital policy and any other relevant contingency plan.

        Senior management should be responsible for this integration and for ongoing
administration of the recovery planning process. Successful integration of recovery planning
into the existing firm processes should result in the following:
        •    Timely recognition of financial weakness by the firm’s management and analysis of
             the underlying cause of the weakness.
        •    Timely discussion by management about the ability of the firm to respond to financial
             weakness and to address the long-term viability of the firm.
        •    Timely notification of identified weakness to the Federal Reserve and other relevant
             supervisors.
        •    Timely escalation by management of identified weaknesses and planned responses to
             the firm’s board of directors.
        •    Timely implementation of options or other remediating actions in a stress situation.
At a minimum, the firm’s internal governance should lead to a response from the firm prior to
the imposition of remedial actions by the Federal Reserve or other responsible supervisors. 4 A
firm should aim to have the ability to take timely action to address signs of weakness or risk
before the onset of significant financial deterioration.
4
  For example, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulators are required to take prompt corrective action to
resolve problems at insured depository institutions when capital measures fall below certain minimum levels.
See 12 U.S.C. 1831o.
                                                                                                         Page 3 of 6
        For a recovery planning process to be effective, a firm should have a comprehensive
understanding of the entire organization and certain baseline capabilities. 5 That understanding
should include the operational and financial linkages among a firm’s business lines, material
entities, and critical operations. 6 Additionally, information systems should be robust enough to
produce the required data and information needed to execute recovery planning options.

       A firm should document its recovery options, as well as internal governance for
developing, testing, updating, and implementing these options in a recovery plan. A firm should
review and update its recovery plan at least annually. At a minimum, such a review should
analyze whether there have been changes to the firm’s structure or to external conditions that
would materially impact the execution of recovery options in the plan. The firm’s recovery plan
should be provided to the Federal Reserve annually.

Role of the Board of Directors

       The firm’s board of directors is responsible for oversight of the firm. This should include
oversight of the firm’s recovery planning process. The board, or a designated committee thereof,
should focus this oversight on the firm’s ability to effectively identify and implement recovery
options and oversee management’s remediation of weaknesses identified in the firm’s processes.

Elements of a Recovery Plan

        The level of detail and analysis in a recovery plan should vary based on the firm’s risk
profile and scope of operations. A recovery plan should address, at a minimum, the following
elements:

    •    Internal Governance: the recovery plan should describe the governance framework for
         recovery planning, including a description of how the plan is developed, approved, and
         updated. In addition, the plan should describe:
             o Triggers that indicate when a firm enters recovery along with related escalation
               procedures for senior management action and notification of board of directors.
             o The linkage of the firm’s recovery planning processes with existing efforts for
               contingency, strategic, and resolution planning.
    •    Recovery Options: the recovery plan should detail options designed to remedy financial
         weakness and maintain market confidence in the firm without extraordinary
         governmental support. The options in the plan should be actionable and comprehensive,
         and should include:
             o Options to conserve or restore liquidity and capital.

5
 SR letter 14-1, “Heightened Supervisory Expectations for Recovery and Resolution Preparedness for Certain Large
Bank Holding Companies - Supplemental Guidance on Consolidated Supervision Framework for Large Financial
Institutions.”
6
  Critical operations are those operations (including associated operations, services, functions, and support) that, if
they were to fail or be discontinued, could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States. Such
operations can be identified by the Federal Reserve or self-identified by the firm.
                                                                                                              Page 4 of 6
           o Opportunities and strategies to de-risk and de-lever the firm.
           o Options contemplating the sale, transfer, or disposal of significant assets,
             portfolios, legal entities, or business lines.
           o Options that may permanently change the firm’s structure or business strategy and
             that may be contemplated only when the firm is nearest to entering resolution
             proceedings.
           o Implementation of other contingency plans as appropriate.
   •   Execution Plan: for each recovery option listed, the recovery plan should describe the
       steps necessary to execute the option. Among other considerations, the description
       should include:
           o The identity and position of the senior management officials of the company who
             are primarily responsible for overseeing the execution of the recovery option.
           o An estimated time frame for implementation.
           o A description of any impediments to execution of the option and mitigation
             strategies to address those impediments.
           o A description of the assumptions underpinning the option.
           o A plan describing the methods and forms of communication with internal,
             external, and regulatory stakeholders.
   •   Impact Assessment: the recovery plan should holistically consider and describe the
       expected impact of individual recovery options. At a minimum, this should include the
       following for each recovery option:
           o A financial impact assessment that describes the impact of executing the option
             on the firm’s capital, liquidity, and balance sheet.
           o A business impact assessment that describes the effect of executing the option on
             business lines and material entities.
           o A critical operation impact assessment that describes how execution of the option
             may affect the provision of any critical operation.
           o An operational impact assessment and contingency plan that explains how
             operations can be maintained if the option is implemented; such an analysis
             should address internal operations (for example, shared services, IT requirements,
             and human resources) and access to market infrastructure (for example, clearing
             and settlement facilities and payment systems).
        Federal Reserve Banks should distribute this letter to bank holding companies subject to
this guidance and to appropriate supervisory staff. Questions regarding this guidance may be
directed to Tudor Rus, Senior Supervisory Financial Analyst, at (202) 475-6359, and Alfonso




                                                                                            Page 5 of 6
Ventoso, Manager, at (202) 475-6366. In addition, questions may be sent via the Federal
Reserve Board’s public website. 7




                                              Barbara J. Bouchard
                                                Acting Director


Cross-References:
      •    SR 14-1, “Heightened Supervisory Expectations for Recovery and Resolution
           Preparedness for Certain Large Bank Holding Companies – Supplemental Guidance on
           Consolidated Supervision Framework for Large Financial Institutions
           (SR letter 12-17/CA letter 12-14)”
      •    SR 12-17/CA 12-14, “Consolidated Supervision Framework for Large Financial
           Institutions”




7
    http://www.federalreserve.gov/apps/contactus/feedback.aspx.
                                                                                        Page 6 of 6
