In October 2025, this attachment was revised to remove references to reputational risk.

                            Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System

                                   Supplemental Policy Statement on the
                                Internal Audit Function and Its Outsourcing

                                                 January 23, 2013
                                               Revised October 2025

PURPOSE

        This policy statement is being issued by the Federal Reserve to supplement the guidance
in the 2003 Interagency Policy Statement on the Internal Audit Function and its Outsourcing
(referred to as the 2003 Policy Statement). 1 As a result of the supervisory experience during and
following the recent financial crisis, Federal Reserve staff identified areas for improving
regulated institutions’ internal audit functions. This supplemental policy statement addresses the
characteristics, governance, and operational effectiveness of an institution’s internal audit
function. Further, this statement reflects certain changes in banking regulations that have
occurred since the issuance of the 2003 Policy Statement. The Federal Reserve is providing this
supplemental guidance to enhance regulated institutions’ internal audit practices and to
encourage them to adopt professional audit standards and other authoritative guidance, including
those issued by the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA). 2

        This statement applies to supervised institutions with greater than $10 billion in total
consolidated assets, including state member banks, domestic bank and savings and loan holding
companies, and U.S. operations of foreign banking organizations. 3 This supplemental guidance
is also consistent with the objectives of the Federal Reserve’s consolidated supervision
framework for large financial institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more,
which promotes an independent internal audit function as an essential element for enhancing the
resiliency of supervised institutions. 4

OVERVIEW

        The degree to which an institution implements the internal audit practices outlined in this
policy statement will be considered in the Federal Reserve’s supervisory assessment of the
effectiveness of an institution’s internal audit function as well as its safety and soundness and
compliance with consumer laws and regulations. Moreover, the overall effectiveness of an

1
    Refer to SR letter 03-5, “Amended Interagency Guidance on the Internal Audit Function and its Outsourcing.”
2
 In this guidance, references have been provided to the IIA’s International Standards for the Professional Practice
of Internal Auditing (Standards). Refer to the IIA website at https://na.theiia.org/standards-
guidance/pages/standards-and-guidance-ippf.aspx.
3
  Section 4 of this document, however, clarifies certain changes to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
regulation (12 CFR part 363) on independence standards for independent public accountants at insured depository
institutions with total assets of $500 million or more, which were adopted pursuant to 2009 amendments to Section
36 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act).
4
    Refer to SR letter 12-17 / CA letter 12-14, “Consolidated Supervision Framework for Large Financial Institutions.”

                                                                                                 Page 1 of 15
institution’s internal audit function will influence the ability of the Federal Reserve to rely upon
the work of an institution’s internal audit function.

       This supplemental policy statement builds upon the 2003 Policy Statement, which
remains in effect, and follows the same organizational structure, with a new section entitled
“Enhanced Internal Audit Practices” and updates to Parts I-IV of the 2003 Policy Statement,
including:

      1. Enhanced Internal Audit Practices: This section is added to introduce enhanced
         practices that will improve the overall safety and soundness of institutions based on
         common observations on the effectiveness of internal audit functions during the recent
         financial crisis.

      2. The Internal Audit Function (Part I of the 2003 Policy Statement): This section
         encourages institutions to incorporate professional standards such as the IIA guidance
         into their overall internal audit architecture and provides additional internal audit
         guidance not specifically articulated in the IIA guidance. The additional guidance
         pertains to the characteristics, governance, and operational effectiveness of an
         institution’s internal audit function.

      3. Internal Audit Outsourcing Arrangements (Part II of the 2003 Policy Statement):
         This section provides further clarification on the responsibilities of an institution’s board
         of directors and senior management to oversee internal audit outsourcing (including co-
         sourcing) arrangements and reemphasizes the need to utilize the same quality standards
         as if the institution maintained an in-house internal audit function.

      4. Independence Guidance for the Independent Public Accountant (Part III of the
         2003 Policy Statement): This section explains certain changes to Section 36 of the FDI
         Act 5 promulgated since the issuance of the 2003 Policy Statement. The July 2009
         amendments to Section 36 of the FDI Act provide that independent public accountants,
         subject to the independence standards issued by the American Institute of Certified Public
         Accountants (AICPA), the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and the Public
         Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB), must comply with the more restrictive
         of the aforesaid standards. In March 2003, the SEC prohibited a registered public
         accounting firm that is responsible for furnishing an opinion on the consolidated or
         separate financial statements of an audit client from providing internal audit services to
         that same client. Therefore, by following the more restrictive independence rules, an
         institution’s external auditor is precluded from performing internal audit services, either
         on a co-sourced or an outsourced basis, even if the institution is not a public company.

      5. Examination Guidance (Part IV of the 2003 Policy Statement): This section provides
         additional guidance on the Federal Reserve supervisory assessment of the overall
         effectiveness of an institution’s internal audit function and considerations relating to the
         potential reliance by Federal Reserve examiners on an institution’s internal audit work.


5
    Refer to 12 CFR part 363.

                                                                                           Page 2 of 15
SUPPLEMENTAL GUIDANCE

1. Enhanced Internal Audit Practices

        An institution’s internal audit function should incorporate the following enhanced
practices into their overall processes:

       A. Risk Analysis

         Internal audit should analyze the effectiveness of all critical risk management functions
both with respect to individual risk dimensions (for example, credit risk), and an institution’s
overall risk management function. The analysis should focus on the nature and extent of
monitoring compliance with established policies and processes and applicable laws and
regulations within the institution as well as whether monitoring processes are appropriate for the
institution’s business activities and the associated risks.

       B. Thematic Control Issues

        Internal audit should identify thematic macro control issues as part of its risk-assessment
processes and determine the overall impact of such issues on the institution’s risk profile.
Additional audit coverage would be expected in business activities that present the highest risk to
the institution. Internal audit coverage should reflect the identification of thematic macro control
issues across the firm in all auditable areas. Internal audit should communicate thematic macro
control issues to senior management and the audit committee.

        In addition, internal audit should identify patterns of thematic macro control issues,
determine whether additional audit coverage is required, communicate such control deficiencies
to senior management and the audit committee, and ensure management establishes effective
remediation mechanisms.

       C. Challenging Management and Policy

        Internal audit should challenge management to adopt appropriate policies and procedures
and effective controls. If policies, procedures, and internal controls are ineffective or insufficient
in a particular line of business or activity, internal audit should report specific deficiencies to
senior management and the audit committee with recommended remediation. Such
recommendations may include restricting business activity in affected lines of business until
effective policies, procedures, and controls are designed and implemented. Internal audit should
monitor management’s corrective action and conduct a follow-up review to confirm that the
recommendations of both internal audit and the audit committee have been addressed.

       D. Infrastructure

        When an institution designs and implements infrastructure enhancements, internal audit
should review significant changes and notify management of potential internal control issues. In
particular, internal audit should ensure that existing, effective internal controls (for example,
software applications and management information system reporting) are not rendered


                                                                                           Page 3 of 15
ineffective as a result of infrastructure changes unless those controls are compensated for by
other improvements to internal controls.

         E. Risk Tolerance

        Internal audit should understand risks faced by the institution and confirm that the board
of directors and senior management are actively involved in setting and monitoring compliance
with the institution’s risk tolerance limits. Internal audit should evaluate the reasonableness of
established limits and perform sufficient testing to ensure that management is operating within
these limits and other restrictions.

         F. Governance and Strategic Objectives

        Internal audit should evaluate governance at all management levels within the institution,
including at the senior management level, and within all significant business lines. Internal audit
should also evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of controls to respond to risks within the
organization’s governance, operations, and information systems in achieving the organization’s
strategic objectives. Any concerns should be communicated by internal audit to the board of
directors and senior management.

2. Internal Audit Function (Part I of the 2003 Policy Statement)

        The primary objectives of the internal audit function are to examine, evaluate, and
perform an independent assessment of the institution’s internal control system, and report
findings back to senior management and the institution’s audit committee. An effective internal
audit function within a financial institution is a vital means for an institution’s board of directors
to maintain the quality of the internal control environment and risk management systems.

       The guidance set forth in this section supplements the existing guidance in the 2003
Policy Statement by strongly encouraging internal auditors to adhere to professional standards,
such as the IIA guidance. Furthermore, this section clarifies certain aspects of the IIA guidance
and provides practices intended to increase the safety and soundness of institutions.

         A. Attributes of Internal Audit

         Independence

        Internal audit is an independent function that supports the organization’s business
objectives and evaluates the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance
processes. The 2003 Policy Statement addressed the structure of an internal audit function,
noting that it should be positioned so that an institution’s board of directors has confidence that
the internal audit function can be impartial and not unduly influenced by managers of day-to-day
operations. Thus, the member of management responsible for the internal audit function
(hereafter referred to as the chief audit executive or CAE) 6 should have no responsibility for
operating the system of internal control and should report functionally to the audit committee. A

6
 More recently, this title is used to refer to the person in charge of the internal audit function. An institution may
not have a person at the management level of CAE and instead may have an internal audit manager.

                                                                                                            Page 4 of 15
reporting arrangement may be used in which the CAE is functionally accountable and reports
directly to the audit committee on internal audit matters (that is, the audit plan, audit findings,
and the CAE’s job performance and compensation) and reports administratively to another senior
member of management who is not responsible for operational activities reviewed by internal
audit. When there is an administrative reporting of the CAE to another member of senior
management, the objectivity of internal audit is served best when the CAE reports
administratively to the chief executive officer (CEO).

         If the CAE reports administratively to someone other than the CEO, the audit committee
should document its rationale for this reporting structure, including mitigating controls available
for situations that could adversely impact the objectivity of the CAE. In such instances, the audit
committee should periodically (at least annually) evaluate whether the CAE is impartial and not
unduly influenced by the administrative reporting line arrangement. Further, conflicts of interest
for the CAE and all other audit staff should be monitored at least annually with appropriate
restrictions placed on auditing areas where conflicts may occur.

        For foreign banking organizations (FBOs), the internal audit function for the U.S.
operations of an FBO should have appropriate independent oversight for the total assets of U.S.
operations. 7 When there is a resident U.S. audit function, the CAE of the U.S. audit function
should report directly to senior officials of the internal audit department at the head office such
as the global CAE. If the FBO has separate U.S. subsidiaries, oversight may be provided by a
U.S. based audit committee that meets U.S. public company standards for independence or by
the foreign parent company’s internal audit function.

         Professional Competence and Staffing

         Internal audit staff should have the requisite collective skill levels to audit all areas of the
institution. Therefore, auditors should have a wide range of business knowledge, demonstrated
through years of audit and industry-specific experience, educational background, professional
certifications, training programs, committee participation, professional associations, and job
rotational assignments. Internal audit should assign staff to audit assignments based on areas of
expertise and, when feasible, rotate staff within the audit function.

         Internal audit management should perform knowledge gap assessments at least annually
to evaluate whether current staff members have the knowledge and skills commensurate with the
institution’s strategy and operations. Management feedback surveys and internal or external
quality assurance findings are useful tools to identify and assess knowledge gaps. Any identified
knowledge gaps should be filled and may be addressed through targeted staff hires, training,
business line rotation programs, and outsourcing arrangements. The internal audit function
should have an effective staff training program to advance professional development and should
have a process to evaluate and monitor the quality and appropriateness of training provided to
each auditor. Internal auditors generally receive a minimum of forty hours of training in a given
year.


7
 This is defined as the combined total assets of U.S. operations, net of all intercompany assets and claims on
U.S.-domiciled affiliates.

                                                                                                         Page 5 of 15
           Objectivity and Ethics

        Internal auditors should be objective, which means performing assignments free from
bias and interference. A major characteristic of objectivity is that the CAE and all internal audit
professional staff avoid any conflicts of interest. 8 For their first year in the internal audit
function, internally recruited internal auditors should not audit activities for which they were
previously responsible. Moreover, compensation schemes should not provide incentives for
internal auditors to act contrary to the attributes and objectives of the internal audit function. 9
While an internal auditor may recommend internal control standards or review management’s
procedures before implementation, objectivity requires that the internal auditor not be
responsible for the design, installation, procedures development, or operations of the institution’s
internal control systems.

        An institution’s internal audit function should have a code of ethics that emphasizes the
principles of objectivity, competence, confidentiality, and integrity, consistent with professional
internal audit guidance such as the code of ethics established by the IIA.

           Internal Audit Charter

        Each institution should have an internal audit charter that describes the purpose,
authority, and responsibility of the internal audit function. An audit charter should include the
following critical components:
           •    The objectives and scope of the internal audit function;
           •    The internal audit function’s management reporting position within the organization,
                as well as its authority and responsibilities;
           •    The responsibility and accountability of the CAE; and
           •    The internal audit function’s responsibility to evaluate the effectiveness of the
                institution’s risk management, internal controls, and governance processes.

        The charter should be approved by the audit committee of the institution’s board of
directors. The charter should provide the internal audit function with the authorization to access
the institution’s records, personnel, and physical properties relevant to the performance of
internal audit procedures, including the authority to examine any activities or entities.
Periodically, the CAE should evaluate whether the charter continues to be adequate, requesting
the approval of the audit committee for any revisions. The charter should define the criteria for
when and how the internal audit function may outsource some of its work to external experts.




8
 IIA standards define conflict of interest as a situation in which an internal auditor, who is in a position of trust, has
a competing professional or personal interest. Such competing interests can make it difficult for the individual to
fulfill his or her duties impartially.
9
    IIA standards have additional examples of “conflict of interest” for consideration.

                                                                                                             Page 6 of 15
       B. Corporate Governance Considerations

       Board of Directors and Senior Management Responsibilities

         The board of directors and senior management are responsible for ensuring that the
institution has an effective system of internal controls. As indicated in the 2003 Policy
Statement, this responsibility cannot be delegated to others within the institution or to external
parties. Further, the board of directors and senior management are responsible for ensuring that
internal controls are operating effectively.

       Audit Committee Responsibilities

        An institution’s audit committee is responsible for establishing an appropriate internal
audit function and ensuring that it operates adequately and effectively. The audit committee
should be confident that the internal audit function addresses the risks and meets the demands
posed by the institution’s current and planned activities. Moreover, the audit committee is
expected to retain oversight responsibility for any aspects of the internal audit function that are
outsourced to a third party.

        The audit committee should provide oversight to the internal audit function. Audit
committee meetings should be on a frequency that facilitates this oversight and generally should
be held four times a year at a minimum, with additional meetings held by audit committees of
larger financial institutions. Annually, the audit committee should review and approve internal
audit’s charter, budget and staffing levels, and the audit plan and overall risk-assessment
methodology. The committee approves the CAE’s hiring, annual performance evaluation, and
compensation.

       The audit committee and its chairperson should have ongoing interaction with the CAE
separate from formally scheduled meetings to remain current on any internal audit department,
organizational, or industry concerns. In addition, the audit committee should have executive
sessions with the CAE without members of senior management present as needed.

          The audit committee should receive appropriate levels of management information to
fulfill its oversight responsibilities. At a minimum, the audit committee should receive the
following data with respect to internal audit:
       •   Audit results with a focus on areas rated less than satisfactory;
       •   Audit plan completion status and compliance with report issuance timeframes;
       •   Audit plan changes, including the rationale for significant changes;
       •   Audit issue information, including aging, past-due status, root-cause analysis, and
           thematic trends;
       •   Information on higher-risk issues indicating the potential impact, root cause, and
           remediation status;
       •   Results of internal and external quality assurance reviews;
       •   Information on significant industry and institution trends in risks and controls;

                                                                                          Page 7 of 15
        •    Reporting of significant changes in audit staffing levels;
        •    Significant changes in internal audit processes, including a periodic review of key
             internal audit policies and procedures;
        •    Budgeted audit hours versus actual audit hours;
        •    Information on major projects; and
        •    Opinion on the adequacy of risk management processes, including effectiveness of
             management’s self-assessment and remediation of identified issues (at least annually).

        Role of the Chief Audit Executive

        In addition to communicating and reporting to the audit committee on audit-related
matters, the CAE is responsible for developing and maintaining a quality assurance and
improvement program that covers all aspects of internal audit activity, and for continuously
monitoring the effectiveness of the audit function. The CAE and/or senior staff should
effectively manage and monitor all aspects of audit work on an ongoing basis, including any
audit work that is outsourced. 10

        C. The Adequacy of the Internal Audit Function’s Processes

        Internal audit should have an understanding of the institution’s strategy and operating
processes as well as the potential impact of current market and macroeconomic conditions on the
financial institution. Internal audit’s risk-assessment methodology is an integral part of the
evaluation of overall policies, procedures, and controls at the institution and the development of
a plan to test those processes.

        Audit Methodology

         Internal audit should ensure that it has a well-developed risk-assessment methodology
that drives its risk-assessment process. The methodology should include an analysis of cross-
institutional risk and thematic control issues and address its processes and procedures for
evaluating the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes. The
methodology should also address the role of continuous monitoring in determining and
evaluating risk, as well as internal audit’s process for incorporating other risk identification
techniques that the institution’s management utilizes such as a risk and control self-assessment
(RCSA). The components of an effective methodology should support the internal audit
function’s assessment of the control environment, beginning with an evaluation of the audit
universe.

        Audit Universe

       Internal audit should have effective processes to identify all auditable entities within the
audit universe. The number of auditable entities will depend upon whether entities are captured
10
  The ongoing review of audit work should include risk assessments of audit entities and elements, scope
documents, audit programs, detailed audit procedures and steps (including sampling methodologies), audit work
papers, audit findings, and monitoring of the timely and effective resolution of audit issues.

                                                                                                     Page 8 of 15
at individual department levels or at other aggregated organizational levels. Internal audit should
use its knowledge of the institution to determine whether it has identified all auditable entities
and may use the general ledger, cost centers, new product approval processes, organization
charts, department listings, knowledge of the institution’s products and services, major operating
and application systems, significant laws and regulations, or other data. The audit universe
should be documented and reviewed periodically as significant organizational changes occur or
at least during the annual audit planning process.

         Internal Audit Risk Assessment

         A risk assessment should document the internal audit staff’s understanding of the
institution’s significant business activities and the associated risks. These assessments typically
analyze the risks inherent in a given business line or process, the mitigating control processes,
and the resulting residual risk exposure to the institution.

         A comprehensive risk assessment should effectively analyze the key risks (and the
critical risk management functions) within the institution and prioritize audit entities within the
audit universe. The risk-assessment process should be well documented and dynamic, reflecting
changes to the system of internal controls, infrastructure, work processes, and new or changed
business lines or laws and regulations. The risk assessments should also consider thematic
control issues, risk tolerance, and governance within the institution. Risk assessments should be
revised in light of changing market conditions or laws and regulations and updated during the
year as changes are identified in the business activities of the institution or observed in the
markets in which the institution operates, but no less than annually. When the risk assessment
indicates a change in risk, the audit plan should be reviewed to determine whether the planned
audit coverage should be increased or decreased to address the revised assessment of risk.

         Risk assessments should be formally documented and supported with written analysis of
the risks. 11 There should be risk assessments for critical risk management functions within the
institution. Risk assessments may be quantitative or qualitative and may include factors such as
the date of the last audit, prior audit results, the impact and likelihood of an event occurring, and
the status of external vendor relationships. A management RCSA, if performed, may be
considered by the internal audit function in developing its independent risk assessment. The
internal audit risk assessment should also include a specific rationale for the overall auditable
entity risk score. The overall disposition of the risk assessment should be summarized with
consideration given to key performance or risk indicators and prior audit results. A high-level
summary or discussion of the risk-assessment results should be provided to the audit committee
and include the most significant risks facing the institution as well as how these risks have been
addressed in the internal audit plan.

         Internal Audit Plan

        Internal audit should develop and periodically revise its comprehensive audit plan and
ensure that audit coverage for all identified, auditable entities within the audit universe is
appropriate for the size and complexity of the institution’s activities. This should be
11
   For example, risks include credit, market, operational, liquidity, compliance, IT, fraud, legal, regulatory, and
strategic.

                                                                                                            Page 9 of 15
accomplished either through a multi-year plan approach, with the plan revised annually, or
through an approach that utilizes a framework to evaluate risks annually focusing on the most
significant risks. In the latter approach, there should be a mechanism in place to identify when a
significant risk will not be audited in the specified timeframe and a requirement to notify the
audit committee and seek its approval of any exception to the framework. Generally, common
practice for institutions with defined audit cycles is to follow either a three- or four-year audit
cycle; high-risk areas should be audited at least every twelve to eighteen months. 12

        The internal audit plan should consider the risk assessment and internal audit’s approach
to audit coverage should be appropriate based on the risk assessment. An effective plan covers
individual business areas and risk disciplines as well as cross-functional and cross-institutional
areas.

        The audit planning process should be dynamic, allowing for change when necessary. The
process should include a process for modifying the internal audit plan to incorporate significant
changes that are identified either through continuous monitoring or during an audit. Any
significant changes should be clearly documented and included in quarterly communications to
the audit committee. Critical data to be reported to the audit committee should include deferred
or cancelled audits rated high-risk and other significant additions or deletions. Significant
changes to audit budgets and timeliness for the completion of audits should be reported to the
audit committee with documented rationale.

         Internal Audit Continuous Monitoring

       Internal audit is encouraged to utilize formal continuous monitoring practices as part of
the function’s risk-assessment processes to support adjustments to the audit plan or universe as
they occur. Continuous monitoring can be conducted by an assigned group or individual internal
auditors. An effective continuous monitoring process should include written standards to ensure
consistent application of processes throughout the organization.

        Continuous monitoring results should be documented through a combination of metrics,
management reporting, periodic audit summaries, and updated risk assessments to substantiate
that the process is operating as designed. Critical issues identified through the monitoring
process should be communicated to the audit committee. Computer-assisted auditing techniques
are useful tools to highlight issues that warrant further consideration within a continuous
monitoring process.




12
   Regardless of the institution’s practice, particular care should be taken to ensure that higher-risk elements are
reviewed with an appropriate frequency, and not obscured due to their inclusion in a lower risk-rated audit entity.

                                                                                                         Page 10 of 15
           D. Internal Audit Performance and Monitoring Processes

           Performance

        Detailed guidance related to the performance of an internal audit should be documented
in the audit manual 13 and work programs to ensure that audit execution is consistent across the
audit function. Internal audit policies and procedures should be designed to ensure that audits
are executed in a high-quality manner, their results are appropriately communicated, and issues
are monitored and appropriately resolved. In performing internal audit work, an institution
should consider the following.

           •   Internal Audit Scope: During the audit planning process, internal audit should
               analyze the auditable entity’s specific risks, mitigating controls, and level of residual
               risk. The information gathered during the audit planning phase should be used to
               determine the scope and specific audit steps that should be performed to test the
               adequacy of the design and operating effectiveness of control processes.

           •   Internal Audit Work Papers: Work papers document the work performed,
               observations and analyses made, and support for the conclusions and audit results.
               The work papers should contain sufficient information regarding any scope or audit
               program modifications and waiver of issues not included in the final report. Work
               papers also should document the specific sampling methodology, including minimum
               sample sizes, and the rationale for such methodology. The work papers should
               contain information that reflects all phases of the audit process including planning,
               fieldwork, reporting, and issues tracking and follow-up. On an ongoing basis, a
               comprehensive supervisory review should be performed on all audit work, including
               any outsourced internal audit procedures. 14

           •   Audit Report: Internal audit should have effective processes to ensure that issues are
               communicated throughout the institution and audit issues are addressed in a timely
               manner. The audit report should include an executive summary that describes the
               auditable area, audit’s conclusions, the rationale for those conclusions, and key
               issues. Most audit reports also include management’s action plans to address audit
               findings. To ensure that identified issues are addressed in a timely manner, reports
               should be issued to affected business areas, senior management, and the audit
               committee within an appropriate timeframe after the completion of field work.
               Compliance with issuance timeframes should be monitored and reported periodically
               to the audit committee. At a minimum, internal audit should ensure that management
               considers the level and significance of the risk when assigning resources to address
               and remediate issues. Management should appropriately document the action plans
               either within the audit report or separately.


13
  To facilitate effective, efficient, and consistent practice within the internal audit department, an institution should
develop an audit manual that includes comprehensive policies and procedures and is made available to all internal
audit staff. The manual should be updated as needed.
14
     An experienced audit manager should perform this review.

                                                                                                            Page 11 of 15
       •   Internal Audit Issues Tracking: Internal audit should have effective processes in
           place to track and monitor open audit issues and to follow-up on such issues. The
           timely remediation of open audit issues is an essential component of an organization’s
           risk reduction efforts. Internal audit and the responsible management should discuss
           and agree to an appropriate resolution date, based on the level of work necessary to
           complete remediation processes. When an issue owner indicates that work to close an
           issue is completed, the internal audit function should perform validation work prior to
           closing the issue. The level of validation necessary may vary based on the issue’s
           risk level. For higher-risk issues, internal audit should perform and document
           substantive testing to validate that the issue has been resolved. Issues should be
           tested over an appropriate period of time to ensure the sustainability of the
           remediation.

       Retrospective Review Processes

        When an adverse event occurs at an institution (for example, fraud or a significant loss),
management should conduct a post-mortem and “lessons learned” analysis. In these situations,
internal audit should ensure that such a review takes place and appropriate action is taken to
remediate identified issues. The internal audit function should evaluate management’s analysis
of the reasons for the event and whether the adverse event was the result of a control breakdown
or failure, and identify the measures that should be put in place to prevent a similar event from
occurring in the future. In certain situations, the internal audit function should conduct its own
post-mortem and a “lessons learned” analysis outlining the remediation procedures necessary to
detect, correct, and/or prevent future internal control breakdowns (including improvements in
internal audit processes).

       Quality Assurance and Improvement Program

        A well-designed, comprehensive quality assurance program should ensure that internal
audit activities conform to the IIA’s professional standards and the institution’s internal audit
policies and procedures. The program should include both internal and external quality
assessments.

         The internal audit function should develop and document its internal assessment program
to promote and assess the quality and consistency of audit work across all audit groups with
respect to policies, procedures, audit performance, and work papers. The quality assurance
review should be performed by someone independent of the audit work being reviewed.
Conclusions reached and recommendations for appropriate improvement in internal audit process
or staff training should be implemented by the CAE through the quality assurance and
improvement program. Action plan progress should be monitored and subsequently closed after
a period of sustainability. Each institution should conduct an internal quality assessment
annually and the CAE should report the results and status of internal assessments to senior
management and the audit committee at least annually.

       The IIA recommends that an external quality assessment of internal audit be performed
by a qualified independent party at least once every five years. The review should address
compliance with the IIA’s definition of internal auditing, code of ethics, and standards, as well as

                                                                                        Page 12 of 15
with the internal audit function’s charter, policies and procedures, and any applicable legislative
and regulatory requirements. The CAE should communicate the results, planned actions, and
status of remediation efforts to senior management and the audit committee.

3. Internal Audit Outsourcing Arrangements (Part II of the 2003 Policy Statement)

         As stated in the 2003 Policy Statement, an institution’s board of directors and senior
management are charged with the overall responsibility for maintaining an effective system of
internal controls. Responsibility for maintaining an effective system of internal controls cannot
be delegated to a third party. An institution that chooses to outsource audit work should ensure
that the audit committee maintains ownership of the internal audit function. The institution’s
audit committee and CAE should provide active and effective oversight of outsourced activities.
Institutions should carefully consider the oversight responsibilities that are consequential to these
types of arrangements in determining appropriate staffing levels.

         To distinguish its duties from those of the outsourcing vendor, the institution should have
a written contract, which may take the form of an engagement letter or similar services
agreement. Contracts between the institution and the vendor should include a provision stating
that work papers and any related non-public confidential information and personal information
must be handled by the vendor in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. An
institution should periodically confirm that the vendor continues to comply with the agreed-upon
confidentiality requirements, especially for long-term contracts. The audit committee should
approve all significant aspects of outsourcing arrangements and should receive information on
audit deficiencies in a manner consistent with that provided by the in-house audit department.

       A. Vendor Competence

        An institution should have appropriate policies and procedures governing the selection
and oversight of internal audit vendors, including whether to continue with an existing
outsourced arrangement. The audit committee and the CAE are responsible for the selection and
retention of internal audit vendors and should be aware of factors that may impact vendors’
competence and ability to deliver high-quality audit services.

       B. Contingency Planning

         An institution’s contingency plan should take into consideration the extent to which the
institution relies upon outsourcing arrangements. When an institution relies significantly on the
resources of an internal audit service provider, the institution should have contingency
procedures for managing temporary or permanent disruptions in the service in order to ensure
that the internal audit function can meet its intended objectives.

       C. Quality of Audit Work

         The quality of audit work performed by the vendor should be consistent with the
institution’s standards of work expected to be performed by an in-house internal audit
department. Further, information supplied by the vendor should provide the board of directors,
its audit committee, and senior management with an accurate report on the control environment,
including any changes necessary to enhance controls.

                                                                                         Page 13 of 15
4. Independence Guidance for the Independent Public Accountant (Part III of the 2003
   Policy Statement)

         The following discussion supplements the discussion in Part III of the 2003 Policy
Statement and addresses additional requirements regarding auditor independence for depository
institutions subject to Section 36 of the FDI Act (as amended in 2009).

        A. Depository Institutions Subject to the Annual Audit and Reporting
           Requirements of Section 36 of the FDI Act

         The July 2009 amendments to Section 36 of the FDI Act (applicable to insured
depository institutions with total assets of $500 million or more) require an institution’s external
auditor to follow the more restrictive of the independence rules issued by the AICPA, SEC, and
PCAOB. In March 2003, the SEC prohibited a registered public accounting firm that is
responsible for furnishing an opinion on the consolidated or separate financial statements of an
audit client from providing internal audit services to that same client. 15 Therefore, by following
the more restrictive independence rules, a depository institution’s external auditor is precluded
from performing internal audit services, either on a co-sourced or an outsourced basis, even if the
institution is not a public company.

5. Examination Guidance (Part IV of the 2003 Policy Statement)

        The following discussion supplements the existing guidance in Part IV of the 2003 Policy
Statement on examination guidance and discusses the overall effectiveness of an institution’s
internal audit function and the examiner’s reliance on internal audit.

        A. Determining the Overall Effectiveness of Internal Audit

        An effective internal audit function is a vehicle to advance an institution’s safety and
soundness and compliance with consumer laws and regulations and is therefore considered as
part of the supervisory review process. Federal Reserve examiners will make an overall
determination as to whether the internal audit function and its processes are effective or
ineffective and whether examiners can potentially rely upon internal audit’s work as part of the
supervisory review process. If internal audit’s overall processes are deemed effective, examiners
may be able to rely on the work performed by internal audit depending on the nature and risk of
the functions subject to examination.

         The supervisory assessment of internal audit and its effectiveness will consider an
institution’s application of the 2003 Policy Statement and this supplemental guidance. An
institution’s internal audit function generally would be considered effective if the institution’s
internal audit function structure and practices are consistent with the 2003 Policy Statement and
this guidance.




15
   See SEC Final Rule, Strengthening the Commission’s Requirements Regarding Auditor Independence, at
17 CFR parts 210, 240, 249 and 274.

                                                                                                 Page 14 of 15
        Conversely, an institution’s internal audit function that does not follow the enhanced
practices and supplemental guidance outlined in this policy letter generally will be considered
ineffective. In such a case, examiners will not rely on the institution’s internal audit function.

        Examiners will inform the CAE as to whether the function is deemed to be effective or
ineffective. Internal audit’s overall processes could be deemed effective even though some
aspects of the internal audit function may require enhancements or improvements such as
additional documentation with respect to specific audit processes (for example, risk assessments
or work papers). In these situations, the required enhancements or improvements generally
should not be a critical part of the overall internal audit function, or the function should be
deemed to be ineffective.

       B. Relying on the Work Performed by Internal Audit

        Examiners may rely on internal audit at supervised institutions if internal audit was
deemed effective at the most recent examination of internal audit. In examining an institution’s
internal audit function, examiners will supplement their examination procedures through
continuous monitoring and an assessment of key elements of internal audit, including: (i) the
adequacy and independence of the audit committee; (ii) the independence, professional
competence, and quality of the internal audit function; (iii) the quality and scope of the audit
methodology, audit plan, and risk assessment; and (iv) the adequacy of audit programs and work
paper standards. On at least an annual basis, examiners should review these key elements to
determine whether there have been significant changes in the internal audit infrastructure or
whether there are potential concerns regarding their adequacy.

        Examiners may choose to rely on the work of internal audit when internal audit’s overall
function and related processes are effective and when recent work was performed by internal
audit in an area where examiners are performing examination procedures. For example, if an
internal audit department performs internal audit work in an area where examiners might also
review controls, examiners may evaluate whether they can rely on the work of internal audit (and
either eliminate or reduce the testing scheduled as part of the regulatory examination processes).
In high-risk areas, examiners will consider whether additional examination work is needed even
where internal audit has been deemed effective and its work reliable.




                                                                                         Page 15 of 15
