DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
[Docket No. OP-1374]


FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION


DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
Office of Thrift Supervision
[Docket ID OTS-2010-0020]

Guidance on Sound Incentive Compensation Policies

AGENCIES: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Treasury (OCC); Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, (Board or Federal Reserve); Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC); Office of Thrift Supervision, Treasury (OTS).
ACTION: Final guidance.
SUMMARY: The OCC, Board , FDIC and OTS (collectively, the Agencies) are
adopting final guidance designed to help ensure that incentive compensation policies at
banking organizations do not encourage imprudent risk-taking and are consistent with the
safety and soundness of the organization.
EFFECTIVE DATE: The guidance is effective on [INSERT DATE OF
PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER].
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
OCC: Karen M. Kwilosz, Director, Operational Risk Policy, (202) 874-9457, or Reggy
Robinson, Policy Analyst, Operational Risk Policy, (202) 874-4438.
Board: William F. Treacy, Adviser, (202) 452-3859, Division of Banking Supervision and
Regulation; Mark S. Carey, Adviser, (202) 452-2784, Division of International Finance;
Kieran J. Fallon, Associate General Counsel, (202) 452-5270 or Michael W. Waldron,
Counsel, (202) 452-2798, Legal Division. For users of Telecommunications Device for the
Deaf (“TDD”) only, contact (202) 263-4869.
FDIC: Mindy West, Chief, Policy and Program Development, Division of Supervision
and Consumer Protection, (202) 898-7221, or Robert W. Walsh, Review Examiner, Policy
and Program Development, Division of Supervision and Consumer Protection, (202) 898-
6649.
OTS: Rich Gaffin, Financial Analyst, Risk Modeling and Analysis, (202) 906-6181, or
Richard Bennett, Senior Compliance Counsel, Regulations and Legislation Division, (202)
906-7409; Donna Deale, Director, Holding Company and International Policy, (202) 906-
7488, Grovetta Gardineer, Managing Director, Corporate and International Activities,
(202) 906-6068; Office of Thrift Supervision, 1700 G Street, NW., Washington, DC 20552.

                                           1
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
I.     Background
        Compensation arrangements are critical tools in the successful management of
financial institutions. These arrangements serve several important and worthy objectives,
including attracting skilled staff, promoting better organization-wide and employee
performance, promoting employee retention, providing retirement security to employees,
and allowing an organization’s personnel costs to vary along with revenues.
        It is clear, however, that compensation arrangements can provide executives and
employees with incentives to take imprudent risks that are not consistent with the long-
term health of the organization. For example, offering large payments to managers or
employees to produce sizable increases in short-term revenue or profit--without regard
for the potentially substantial short or long-term risks associated with that revenue or
profit--can encourage managers or employees to take risks that are beyond the capability
of the financial institution to manage and control.
        Flawed incentive compensation practices in the financial industry were one of
many factors contributing to the financial crisis that began in 2007. Banking
organizations too often rewarded employees for increasing the organization’s revenue or
short-term profit without adequate recognition of the risks the employees’ activities
posed to the organization.
        Having witnessed the damaging consequences that can result from misaligned
incentives, many financial institutions are now re-examining their compensation
structures with the goal of better aligning the interests of managers and other employees
with the long-term health of the institution. Aligning the interests of shareholders and
employees, however, is not always sufficient to protect the safety and soundness of a
banking organization. Because banking organizations benefit directly or indirectly from
the protections offered by the federal safety net (including the ability of insured
depository institutions to raise insured deposits and access the Federal Reserve’s discount
window and payment services), shareholders of a banking organization in some cases
may be willing to tolerate a degree of risk that is inconsistent with the organization’s
safety and soundness. Thus, a review of incentive compensation arrangements and
related corporate governance practices to ensure that they are effective from the
standpoint of shareholders is not sufficient to ensure they adequately protect the safety
and soundness of the organization.




                                             2
A. Proposed Guidance
        In October 2009, the Federal Reserve issued and requested comment on Proposed
Guidance on Sound Incentive Compensation Policies (“proposed guidance”) to help
protect the safety and soundness of banking organizations supervised by the Federal
Reserve and to promote the prompt improvement of incentive compensation practices
throughout the banking industry. 1 The proposed guidance was based on three key
principles. These principles provided that incentive compensation arrangements at a
banking organization should—
               • Provide employees incentives that appropriately balance risk and reward;
               • Be compatible with effective controls and risk-management; and
               • Be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and
                 effective oversight by the organization’s board of directors.
        Because incentive compensation arrangements for executive and non-executive
employees may pose safety and soundness risks if not properly structured, the proposed
guidance applied to senior executives as well as other employees who, either individually
or as part of a group, have the ability to expose the relevant banking organization to
material amounts of risk.
        With respect to the first principle, the proposed guidance, among other things,
provided that a banking organization should ensure that its incentive compensation
arrangements do not encourage short-term profits at the expense of short- and longer-
term risks to the organization. Rather, the proposed guidance indicated that banking
organizations should adjust the incentive compensation provided so that employees bear
some of the risk associated with their activities. To be fully effective, these adjustments
should take account of the full range of risks that the employees’ activities may pose for
the organization. The proposed guidance highlighted several methods that banking
organizations could use to adjust incentive compensation awards or payments to take
account of risk.
        With respect to the second principle, the proposed guidance provided that banking
organizations should integrate their approaches to incentive compensation arrangements
with their risk-management and internal control frameworks to better monitor and control
the risks these arrangements may create for the organization. Accordingly, the proposed
guidance provided that banking organizations should ensure that risk-management
personnel have an appropriate role in designing incentive compensation arrangements
and assessing whether the arrangements may encourage imprudent risk-taking. In
addition, the proposed guidance provided that banking organizations should track
incentive compensation awards and payments, risks taken, and actual risk outcomes to
determine whether incentive compensation payments to employees are reduced or
adjusted to reflect adverse risk outcomes.
       With respect to the third principle, the proposed guidance provided that a banking
organization’s board of directors should play an informed and active role in ensuring that
the organization’s compensation arrangements strike the proper balance between risk and

1
    74 FR 55227 (October 27, 2009).

                                              3
profit not only at the initiation of a compensation program, but on an ongoing basis.
Thus, the proposed guidance provided that boards of directors should review and approve
key elements of their organizations’ incentive compensation systems across the
organization, receive and review periodic evaluations of whether their organizations’
compensation systems for all major segments of the organization are achieving their risk-
mitigation objectives, and directly approve the incentive compensation arrangements for
senior executives.
        The Board’s proposed guidance applied to all banking organizations supervised
by the Federal Reserve. However, the proposed guidance also included provisions
intended to reflect the diversity among banking organizations, both with respect to the
scope and complexity of their activities, as well as the prevalence and scope of incentive
compensation arrangements. Thus, for example, the proposed guidance provided that the
reviews, policies, procedures, and systems implemented by a smaller banking
organization that uses incentive compensation arrangements on a limited basis would be
substantially less extensive, formalized, and detailed than those at a large, complex
banking organization (LCBO) 2 that uses incentive compensation arrangements
extensively. In addition, because sound incentive compensation practices are important
to protect the safety and soundness of all banking organizations, the Federal Reserve
announced that it would work with the other Federal banking agencies to promote
application of the guidance to all banking organizations.
        The Board invited comment on all aspects of the proposed guidance. The Board
also specifically requested comments on a number of issues, including whether:
             •   the three core principles are appropriate and sufficient to help ensure that
                 incentive compensation arrangements do not threaten the safety and
                 soundness of banking organizations;
             •   there are any material legal, regulatory, or other impediments to the
                 prompt implementation of incentive compensation arrangements and
                 related processes that would be consistent with those principles;
             •   formulaic limits on incentive compensation would likely promote the
                 safety and soundness of banking organizations, whether applied generally
                 or to specific types of employees or banking organizations;
             •    market forces or practices in the broader financial services industry, such
                 as the use of “golden parachute” or “golden handshake” arrangements to
                 retain or attract employees, present challenges for banking organizations
                 in developing and maintaining balanced incentive compensation
                 arrangements;
             •   the proposed guidance would impose undue burdens on, or have
                 unintended consequences for, banking organizations, particularly smaller,
                 less complex organizations, and whether there are ways such potential


2
  In the proposed guidance (issued by the Federal Reserve), the term LCBO was used as this is the term
utilized by the Federal Reserve in describing such organizations. The final guidance uses the term Large
Banking Organization (LBO), which encompasses terminology utilized by the OCC, FDIC and OTS.

                                                    4
                 burdens or consequences could be addressed in a manner consistent with
                 safety and soundness; and
             •   there are types of incentive compensation plans, such as organization-wide
                 profit sharing plans that provide for distributions in a manner that is not
                 materially linked to the performance of specific employees or groups of
                 employees, that could and should be exempted from, or treated differently
                 under, the guidance because they are unlikely to affect the risk-taking
                 incentives of all, or a significant number of employees.
B. Supervisory Initiatives
      In connection with the issuance of the proposed guidance, the Federal Reserve
announced two supervisory initiatives:
             •   A special horizontal review of incentive compensation practices at
                 LCBO’s ; and
             •   A review of incentive compensation practices at other banking
                 organizations as part of the regular, risk-focused examination process for
                 these organizations.
         The horizontal review was designed to assess: the potential for these
arrangements or practices to encourage imprudent risk-taking; the actions an organization
has taken or proposes to take to correct deficiencies in its incentive compensation
practices; and the adequacy of the organization’s compensation-related risk-management,
control, and corporate governance processes.


       II.       Overview of Comments
         The Board received 34 written comments on the proposed guidance, which were
shared and reviewed by all of the Agencies. Commenters included banking
organizations, financial services trade associations, service providers to financial
organizations, representatives of institutional shareholders, labor organizations, and
individuals. Most commenters supported the goal of the proposed guidance--to ensure
that incentive compensation arrangements do not encourage imprudent or undue risk-
taking at banking organizations. Commenters also generally supported the principles-
based approach of the proposed guidance. For example, many commenters specifically
supported the avoidance of formulaic or one-size-fits-all approaches to incentive
compensation in the proposed guidance. These commenters noted financial organizations
are very diverse and should be permitted to adopt incentive compensation measures that
fit their needs, while also being consistent with safe and sound operations. Several
commenters also asserted that a formulaic approach would inevitably lead to exaggerated
risk-taking incentives in some situations while discouraging employees from taking
reasonable and appropriate risks in others. One commenter also argued that unintended
consequences would be more likely to result from a “rigid rulemaking” than from a
flexible, principles-based approach.
       Many commenters requested that the Board revise or clarify the proposed
guidance in one or more respects. For example, several commenters asserted that the

                                              5
guidance should impose specific restrictions on incentive compensation at banking
organizations or mandate certain corporate governance or risk-management practices.
One commenter recommended a requirement that most compensation for senior
executives be provided in the form of variable, performance-vested equity awards that are
deferred for at least five years, and that stock option compensation be prohibited.
Another commenter advocated a ban on “golden parachute” payments and on bonuses
based on metrics related to one year or less of performance. Other commenters suggested
that the guidance should require banking organizations to have an independent chairman
of the board of directors, require annual majority voting for all directors, or provide for
shareholders to have a vote (so called “say-on-pay” voting provisions) on the incentive
compensation arrangements for certain employees of banking organizations. Other
commenters requested that certain types of compensation plans, such as organization-
wide profit sharing plans or 401(k) plans or plans covered by the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act (29 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.), be exempted from the scope of the
guidance because they were unlikely to provide employees incentives to expose their
banking organization to undue risk.
        Several commenters, however, did not support the proposed guidance. Some of
these commenters felt that the proposed guidance was unnecessary and that the principles
used in the proposed guidance were not needed. These commenters argued that the
existing system of financial regulation and enforcement is sufficient to address the
concerns raised in the proposed guidance. Several commenters also thought that the
proposed guidance was too vague to be helpful, and that the ambiguity of the proposed
guidance would make compliance more difficult, leading to increased costs and
regulatory uncertainty. Some commenters also argued that the guidance was not
warranted because there is insufficient evidence that incentive compensation practices
contributed to safety and soundness or financial stability problems, or questioned the
authority of the Federal Reserve or the other Federal banking agencies to act in this area.
        In addition, a number of commenters expressed concern that the proposed
guidance would impose undue burden on banking organizations, particularly smaller, less
complex organizations. These commenters believed that incentive compensation
practices at smaller banking organizations were generally not problematic from a safety
and soundness perspective. 3 A number of commenters suggested that all or most smaller
banking organizations should be exempt from the guidance. A number of commenters
expressed concerns that the proposed guidance would impose unreasonable demands on
the boards of directors of banking organizations and especially smaller organizations.
        Several commenters also expressed concern that the proposed guidance, if
implemented, could impede the ability of banking organizations to attract or retain
qualified staff and compete with other financial services providers. In light of these
concerns, some commenters suggested that the guidance expressly allow banking
organizations to enter into such compensation arrangements as they deem necessary for
recruitment or retention purposes. A number of commenters also encouraged the Federal
Reserve to work with other domestic and foreign supervisors and authorities to promote

3
  On the other hand, one commenter requested that the proposed guidance not be enforced differently at
larger institutions solely because of their size.

                                                    6
consistent standards for incentive compensation practices at financial institutions and a
level competitive playing field for financial service providers.
         The comments received on the proposed guidance are further discussed below.



III.    Final Guidance
        After carefully reviewing the comments on the proposed guidance, the Agencies
have adopted final guidance that retains the same key principles embodied in the
proposed guidance, with a number of adjustments and clarifications that address matters
raised by the commenters. These principles are: (1) incentive compensation
arrangements at a banking organization should provide employees incentives that
appropriately balance risk and financial results in a manner that does not encourage
employees to expose their organizations to imprudent risk; (2) these arrangements should
be compatible with effective controls and risk-management; and (3) these arrangements
should be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective
oversight by the organization’s board of directors. The Agencies believe that it is
important that incentive compensation arrangements at banking organizations do not
provide incentives for employees to take risks that could jeopardize the safety and
soundness of the organization. The final guidance seeks to address the safety and
soundness risks of incentive compensation practices by focusing on the basic problem
they can pose from a risk-management perspective, that is, incentive compensation
arrangements – if improperly structured – can give employees incentives to take
imprudent risks.
        The Agencies believe the principles of the final guidance should help protect the
safety and soundness of banking organizations and the stability of the financial system,
and that adoption of the guidance is fully consistent with the Agencies’ statutory mandate
to protect the safety and soundness of banking organizations. 4
       The final guidance applies to all the banking organizations supervised by the
Agencies, including national banks, state member banks, state nonmember banks, savings
associations, U.S. bank holding companies, savings and loan holding companies, the U.S.
operations of foreign banks with a branch, agency or commercial lending company in the
United States, and Edge and agreement corporations (collectively, “banking
organizations”).
       A number of changes have been made to the proposed guidance in response to
comments. For example, the final guidance includes several provisions designed to
reduce burden on smaller banking organizations and other banking organizations that are


4
  See, e.g. 12 U.S.C. 1818(b). The Agencies regularly issue supervisory guidance based on the authority in
section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance (FDI) Act. Guidance is used to identify practices that the
Agencies believe would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice and/or identify risk-management systems,
controls, or other practices that the Agencies believe would assist banking organizations in ensuring that
they operate in a safe and sound manner. Savings associations should also refer to OTS’s rule on
employment contracts 12 CFR 563.39.

                                                    7
not significant users of incentive compensation. The Agencies also have made a number
of changes to clarify the scope, intent, and terminology of the final guidance.
A.      Scope of Guidance
        Compensation practices were not the sole cause of the financial crisis, but they
certainly were a contributing cause--a fact recognized by 98 percent of the respondents to
a survey of banking organizations engaged in wholesale banking activities conducted in
2009 by the Institute of International Finance and publicly by a number of individual
financial institutions. 5 Moreover, the problems caused by improper compensation
practices were not limited to U.S. financial institutions, but were evident at major
financial institutions worldwide, a fact recognized by international bodies such as the
Financial Stability Board (FSB) and the Senior Supervisors Group. 6
        Because compensation arrangements for executive and non-executive employees
alike may pose safety and soundness risks if not properly structured, these principles and
the final guidance apply to senior executives as well as other employees who, either
individually or as part of a group, have the ability to expose the banking organization to
material amounts of risk. 7 These employees are referred to as “covered employees” in
the final guidance. In response to comments, the final guidance clarifies that an
employee or group of employees has the ability to expose a banking organization to
material amounts of risk if the employees’ activities are material to the organization or
are material to a business line or operating unit that is itself material to the organization.
        Some commenters suggested that certain categories of employees, such as tellers,
bookkeepers, administrative assistants, or employees who process but do not originate
transactions, do not expose banking organizations to significant levels of risk and
therefore should be exempted from coverage under the final guidance. The final
guidance, like the proposed guidance, indicates that the facts and circumstances will
determine which jobs or categories of employees have the ability to expose the

5
  See, Institute of International Finance, Inc. (2009), Compensation in Financial Services: Industry Progress
and the Agenda for Change (Washington: IIF, March) available at
http://www.oliverwyman.com/ow/pdf_files/OW_En_FS_Publ_2009_CompensationInFS.pdf. See also UBS,
Shareholder Report on UBS's Write-Downs, April 18, 2008, pp. 41-42 (identifies incentive effects of UBS
compensation practices as contributing factors in losses suffered by UBS due to exposure to the subprime
mortgage market) available at
http://www.ubs.com/1/ShowMedia/investors/agm?contentId=140333&name=080418ShareholderReport.pdf.
6
  See, Financial Stability Forum (2009), FSF Principles for Sound Compensation Practices (87 KB PDF)
(Basel, Switzerland: FSF, April), available at
http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/publications/r_0904b.pdf; and Senior Supervisors Group (2009),
Risk-management Lessons from the Global Banking Crisis of 2008 (Basel, Switzerland: SSG, October),
available at http://www.newyorkfed.org/newsevents/news/banking/2009/ma091021.html. The Financial
Stability Forum was renamed the Financial Stability Board in April 2009.
7
  In response to a number of comments requesting clarification regarding the scope of the term “senior
executives” as used in the guidance, the final guidance states that “senior executive” includes, at a
minimum, “executive officers” within the meaning of the Board’s Regulation O (12 CFR 215.2(e)(1)) and,
for publicly traded companies, “named officers” within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s rules on disclosure of executive compensation (17 CFR 229.402(a)(3)). Savings
associations should also refer to OTS’s rule on loans by savings associations to their executive officers,
directors, and principal shareholders. 12 CFR 563.43


                                                     8
organization to material risks and which jobs or categories of employees may be outside
the scope of the guidance. The final guidance recognizes, for example, that tellers,
bookkeepers, couriers, and data processing personnel would likely not expose
organizations to significant risks of the types meant to be addressed by the guidance. On
the other hand, employees or groups of employees who do not originate business or
approve transactions could still expose a banking organization to material risk in some
circumstances. Therefore, the Agencies do not believe it would be appropriate to provide
a blanket exemption from the final guidance for any category of covered employees that
would apply to all banking organizations.
        After reviewing the comments, the Agencies have retained the principles-based
framework of the proposed guidance. The Agencies believe this approach is the most
effective way to address incentive compensation practices, given the differences in the
size and complexity of banking organizations covered by the guidance and the
complexity, diversity, and range of use of incentive compensation arrangements by those
organizations. For example, activities and risks may vary significantly across banking
organizations and across employees within a particular banking organization. For this
reason, the methods used to achieve appropriately risk-sensitive compensation
arrangements likely will differ across and within organizations, and use of a single,
formulaic approach likely will provide at least some employees with incentives to take
imprudent risks.
        The Agencies, however, have not modified the guidance, as some commenters
requested, to provide that a banking organization may enter into incentive compensation
arrangements that are inconsistent with the principles of safety and soundness whenever
the organization believes that such action is needed to retain or attract employees. The
Agencies recognize that while incentive compensation serves a number of important
goals for banking organizations, including attracting and retaining skilled staff, these
goals do not override the requirement for banking organizations to have incentive
compensation systems that are consistent with safe and sound operations and that do not
encourage imprudent risk-taking. The final guidance provides banking organizations
with considerable flexibility in structuring their incentive compensation arrangements in
ways that both promote safety and soundness and that help achieve the arrangements’
other objectives.
         The Agencies are mindful, however, that banking organizations operate in both
domestic and international competitive environments that include financial services
providers that are not subject to prudential oversight by the Agencies and, thus, not
subject to the final guidance. The Agencies also recognize that international coordination
in this area is important both to promote competitive balance and to ensure that
internationally active banking organizations are subject to consistent requirements. For
this reason, the Agencies will continue to work with their domestic and international
counterparts to foster sound compensation practices across the financial services industry.
Importantly, the final guidance is consistent with both the Principles for Sound
Compensation Practices and the related Implementation Standards adopted by the FSB in




                                             9
2009. 8 A number of commenters expressed concern about the levels of compensation
paid to some employees of banking organizations. As noted above, several commenters
requested that the Board eliminate or limit certain types of incentive compensation for
employees of banking organizations. Other commenters advocated that certain forms of
compensation be required. For example, some commenters urged a ban on incentive
compensation payments made in stock options, while others supported their mandatory
use. Comments also were received with regard to the use of other types of stock-based
compensation, such as restricted stock and stock appreciation rights. Consistent with its
principles-based approach, the final guidance does not mandate or prohibit the use of any
specific forms of payment for incentive compensation or establish mandatory
compensation levels or caps. Rather, the forms and levels of incentive compensation
payments at banking organizations are expected to reflect the principles of the final
guidance in a manner tailored to the business, risk profile, and other attributes of the
banking organization. Incentive compensation structures that offer employees rewards
for increasing short-term profit or revenue, without taking into account risk, may
encourage imprudent risk-taking even if they meet formulaic levels or include or exclude
certain forms of compensation. On the other hand, incentive compensation arrangements
of various forms and levels may be properly structured so as not to encourage imprudent
risk-taking.
        In response to comments, the final guidance clarifies in a number of respects the
expectation of the Agencies that the impact of the final guidance on banking
organizations will vary depending on the size and complexity of the organization and its
level of usage of incentive compensation arrangements. It is expected that the guidance
will generally have less impact on smaller banking organizations, which typically are less
complex and make less use of incentive compensation arrangements than larger banking
organizations. Because of the size and complexity of their operations, large banking
organizations (LBOs) 9 should have and adhere to systematic and formalized policies,
procedures and processes. These are considered important in ensuring that incentive
compensation arrangements for all covered employees are identified and reviewed by
appropriate levels of management (including the board of directors where appropriate and
control units), and that they appropriately balance risks and rewards . The final guidance
highlights the types of policies, procedures, and systems that LBOs should have and
maintain, but that are not expected of other banking organizations. It is expected that,
particularly in the case of LBO’s, adoption of this principles-based approach will require
an iterative supervisory process to ensure that the embedded flexibility that allows for

8
  See, Financial Stability Forum, FSF Principles for Sound Compensation Practices, in note 6; and
Financial Stability Board (2009), FSB Principles for Sound Compensation Practices: Implementation
Standards (35 KB PDF) (Basel, Switzerland: FSB, September), available at
http://www.financialstabilityboard.org/publications/r_090925c.pdf.
9
  For purposes of the final guidance, LBOs include, in the case of banking organizations supervised by (i)
the Federal Reserve, large, complex banking organizations as identified by the Federal Reserve for
supervisory purposes; (ii) the OCC, the largest and most complex national banks as defined in the Large
Bank Supervision booklet of the Comptroller's Handbook; (iii) the FDIC, large complex insured
depository institutions (IDIs); and (iv) the OTS, the largest and most complex savings associations and
savings and loan holding companies. The term “smaller banking organizations’ is used to refer to banking
organizations that are not LBOs under the relevant agency's standard.


                                                    10
customized arrangements for each banking organization does not undermine effective
implementation of the guidance.
        With respect to U.S. operations of foreign banks, incentive compensation policies,
including management, review, and approval requirements for a foreign bank’s U.S.
operations should be coordinated with the foreign banking organization’s group-wide
policies developed in accordance with the rules of the foreign banking organization’s
home country supervisor. These policies and practices should be consistent with the
foreign bank’s overall corporate and management structure and its framework for risk-
management and internal controls, as well as with the final guidance.
B. Balanced Incentive Compensation Arrangements
        The first principle of the final guidance is that incentive compensation
arrangements should provide employees incentives that appropriately balance risks and
rewards in a manner that does not encourage imprudent risk-taking. The amounts of
incentive pay flowing to covered employees should take account of and adjust for the
risks and losses--as well as gains--associated with employees’ activities, so that
employees do not have incentives to take imprudent risk. The formulation of this
principle is slightly different from that used in the proposed guidance, which stated that
organizations should provide employees incentives that do not encourage imprudent risk-
taking beyond the organization’s ability to effectively identify and manage risk. This
change was made to clarify that risk-management procedures and control functions that
ordinarily limit risk-taking do not obviate the need to identify covered employees and to
develop incentive compensation arrangements that properly balance risk-taking
incentives. To be fully effective, balancing adjustments to incentive compensation
arrangements should take account of the full range of risks that employees’ activities may
pose for the organization, including credit, market, liquidity, operational, legal,
compliance, and reputational risks.
        A number of commenters expressed the view that increased controls could
mitigate a lack of balance in incentive compensation arrangements. Under this view,
unbalanced incentive compensation arrangements could be addressed either through the
modification of the incentive compensation arrangements or through the application of
additional or more effective risk controls to the business. The final guidance recognizes
that strong and effective risk-management and internal control functions are critical to the
safety and soundness of banking organizations. However, the Agencies believe that
poorly designed or managed incentive compensation arrangements can themselves be a
source of risk to banking organizations and undermine the controls in place. Unbalanced
incentive compensation arrangements can place substantial strain on the risk-
management and internal control functions of even well-managed organizations.
Furthermore, poorly balanced incentive compensation arrangements can encourage
employees to take affirmative actions to weaken the organization’s risk-management or
internal control functions.
        The final guidance, like the proposed guidance, outlines four methods that are
currently in use to make compensation more sensitive to risk. These are risk adjustment
of awards; deferral of payment; longer performance periods; and reduced sensitivity to
short-term performance. Each method has advantages and disadvantages. For example,

                                             11
incentive compensation arrangements for senior executives at LBOs are likely to be
better balanced if they involve deferral of a substantial portion of the executives’
incentive compensation over a multi-year period, with payment made in the form of stock
or other equity-based instruments and with the number of instruments ultimately received
dependent on the performance of the organization (or, ideally, the performance of the
executive) during the deferral period. Deferral, however, may not be effective in
constraining the incentives of employees who may have the ability to expose the
organization to long-term risks, as these risks may not be realized during a reasonable
deferral period. For this reason, the final guidance recognizes that in some cases, two or
more methods may be needed in combination (e.g., risk adjustment of awards and
deferral of payment) to achieve an incentive compensation arrangement that properly
balances risk and reward.
        Furthermore, the few methods noted in the final guidance are not exclusive, and
other effective methods or variations may exist or be developed. Methods for achieving
balanced compensation arrangements at one organization may not be effective at another
organization. Each organization is responsible for ensuring that its incentive
compensation arrangements are consistent with the safety and soundness of the
organization. The guidance clarifies that LBOs should actively monitor industry,
academic, and regulatory developments in incentive compensation practices and theory
and be prepared to incorporate into their incentive compensation systems new or
emerging methods that are likely to improve the organization’s long-term financial well-
being and safety and soundness.
        In response to a question asked in the proposed guidance, several commenters
requested that certain types of compensation plans be treated as beyond the scope of the
final guidance because commenters believed these plans do not threaten the safety and
soundness of banking organizations. These included organization-wide profit sharing
plans, 401(k) plans, defined benefit plans, and ERISA plans.
        The final guidance does not exempt any broad categories of compensation plans
based on their tax structure, corporate form, or status as a retirement or other employee
benefit plans, because any type of incentive compensation plan may be implemented in a
way that increases risk inappropriately. In response to these comments, however, the
final guidance recognizes that the term “incentive compensation” does not include
arrangements that are based solely on the employees’ level of compensation and that do
not vary based on one or more performance metrics (e.g., a 401(k) plan under which the
organization contributes a set percentage of an employee’s salary). In addition, the final
guidance notes that incentive compensation plans that provide for awards based solely on
overall organization-wide performance are unlikely to provide employees, other than
senior executives and individuals who have the ability to materially affect the
organization’s overall performance, with unbalanced risk-taking incentives.
        In many cases, there were comments on both sides of an issue, with some wanting
less or no guidance and others wanting tough, or very specific prohibitions. For example,
a number of commenters argued that the use of “golden parachutes” and similar retention
and recruitment provisions to retain employees should be prohibited because such



                                            12
provisions have been abused in the past. 10 A larger number of commenters, however,
argued against a per se ban on such arrangements, stating that these provisions were in
some cases essential elements of effective recruiting and retention packages and are not
necessarily a threat to safety and soundness. One commenter stated that golden parachute
payments triggered by changes in control of a banking organization are too speculative to
encourage imprudent risk-taking by employees.
       The final guidance, like the proposed guidance, provides that banking
organizations should carefully consider the potential for golden parachutes and similar
arrangements to affect the risk-taking behavior of employees. The final guidance adds
language noting that arrangements that provide an employee with a guaranteed payout
upon departure from an organization regardless of performance may neutralize the effect
of any balancing features included in the arrangement to help prevent imprudent risk-
taking. Organizations should consider including balancing features -- such as risk
adjustments or deferral requirements -- in golden parachutes and similar arrangements to
mitigate the potential for the arrangements to encourage imprudent risk-taking.
         Provisions that require a departing employee to forfeit deferred incentive
compensation payments may also weaken the effectiveness of a deferral arrangement if
the departing employee is able to negotiate a “golden handshake” arrangement with the
employee’s new organization 11 . Golden handshake provisions present special issues for
banking organizations and supervisors, some of which are discussed in the final guidance,
because it is the action of the employee’s new employer – which may not be a regulated
institution – that can affect the current employer’s ability to properly align the
employee’s interest with the organization’s long-term health. The final guidance states
that LBOs should monitor whether golden handshake arrangements are materially
weakening the organization’s efforts to constrain the risk-taking incentives of employees.
The Agencies will continue to work with banking organizations and others to develop
appropriate methods for addressing any effect that such arrangements may have on the
safety and soundness of banking organizations.
C. Compatibility with Effective Controls and Risk-management
        The second principle of the final guidance states that a banking organization’s
risk-management processes and internal controls should reinforce and support the
development and maintenance of balanced incentive compensation arrangements.
Banking organizations should integrate incentive compensation arrangements into their
risk-management and internal control frameworks to ensure that balance is achieved. In
particular, banking organizations should have appropriate controls to ensure that
processes for achieving balance are followed. Appropriate personnel, including risk-
management personnel, should have input in the design and assessment of incentive
compensation arrangements. Compensation for risk-management and control personnel

10
   Arrangements that provide for an employee (typically a senior executive), upon departure from an
organization or a change in control of the organization, to receive large additional payments or the
accelerated payment of deferred amounts without regard to risk or risk outcomes are sometimes called
“golden parachutes.”
11
   Golden handshakes are arrangements that compensate an employee for some or all of the estimated, non-
adjusted value of deferred incentive compensation that would have been forfeited upon departure from the
employee’s previous employment.

                                                  13
should be sufficient to attract and retain appropriately qualified personnel and such
compensation should not be based substantially on the financial performance of the
business unit that they review. Rather, their performance should be based primarily on
the achievement of the objectives of their functions (e.g., adherence to internal controls).
        Banking organizations should monitor incentive compensation awards, risks taken
and actual risk outcomes to determine whether incentive compensation payments to
employees are reduced to reflect adverse risk outcomes. Incentive compensation
arrangements that are found not to appropriately reflect risk should be modified as
necessary. Organizations should not only provide rewards when performance standards
are met or exceeded, they should also reduce compensation when standards are not met.
If senior executives or other employees are paid substantially all of their potential
incentive compensation when risk outcomes are materially worse than expected,
employees may be encouraged to take large risks in the hope of substantially increasing
their personal compensation, knowing that their downside risks are limited. Simply put,
incentive compensation arrangements should not create a "heads I win, tails the firm
loses" expectation.
        A significant number of comments expressed concerns about the scope of the
applicability of the proposed guidance to smaller banking organizations as well as the
burden the proposed guidance would impose on these organizations. In response to these
comments, the final guidance has made more explicit the Agencies’ view that the
monitoring methods and processes used by a banking organization should be
commensurate with the size and complexity of the organization, as well as its use of
incentive compensation. Thus, for example, a smaller organization that uses incentive
compensation only to a limited extent may find that it can appropriately monitor its
arrangements through normal management processes. The final guidance also discusses
specific aspects of policies and procedures related to controls and risk-management that
are applicable to LBOs and are not expected of other banking organizations.
D. Strong Corporate Governance
        The third principle of the final guidance is that incentive compensation programs
at banking organizations should be supported by strong corporate governance, including
active and effective oversight by the organization’s board of directors. 12 The board of
directors of an organization is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the organization’s
incentive compensation arrangements for all covered employees -- not solely senior
executives -- are appropriately balanced and do not jeopardize the safety and soundness
of the organization. Boards of directors should receive data and analysis from
management or other sources that are sufficient to allow the board to assess whether the
overall design and performance of the organization’s incentive compensation
arrangements are consistent with the organization’s safety and soundness. These reviews
and reports should be appropriately scoped to reflect the size and complexity of the
banking organization’s activities and the prevalence and scope of its incentive
compensation arrangements. The structure, composition, and resources of the board of

12
   In the case of foreign banking organizations (FBOs), the term “board of directors” refers to the relevant
oversight body for the firm’s U.S. operations, consistent with the FBO’s overall corporate and management
structure.


                                                    14
directors should be constructed to permit effective oversight of incentive compensation.
The board of directors should, for example, have, or have access to, a level of expertise
and experience in risk-management and compensation practices in the financial services
sector that is appropriate for the nature, scope, and complexity of the organization’s
activities. 13
        Given the key role of senior executives in managing the overall risk-taking
activities of an organization, the board of directors should directly approve compensation
arrangements involving senior executives and closely monitor such payments and their
sensitivity to risk outcomes. If the compensation arrangements for a senior executive
include a deferral of payment or “clawback” provision, then the review should include
sufficient information to determine if the provision has been triggered and executed as
planned. The board also should approve and document any material exceptions or
adjustments to the incentive compensation arrangements established for senior executives
and should carefully consider and monitor the effects of any approved exceptions or
adjustments to the arrangements.
        In response to comments expressing concern about the impact of the proposed
guidance on smaller banking organizations, the final guidance identifies specific aspects
of the corporate governance provisions of the final guidance that are applicable to LBOs
or other organizations that use incentive compensation to a significant degree, and are not
expected of other banking organizations. In particular, boards of directors of LBOs and
other organizations that use incentive compensation to a significant degree should
actively oversee the development and operation of the organization’s incentive
compensation policies, systems and related control processes. If such an organization
does not already have a compensation committee, reporting to the full board, with
primary responsibility for incentive compensation arrangements, the board should
consider establishing one. LBOs, in particular, should follow a systematic approach,
outlined in the final guidance, in developing compensation systems that have balanced
incentive compensation arrangements.
        Several commenters expressed concern that the proposed guidance appeared to
create a new substantive qualification for boards of directors that requires the boards of
all banking organizations to have members with expertise in compensation and risk-
management issues. A group of commenters noted that such a requirement could limit an
already small pool of people suitable to serve on boards of directors of banking
organizations and that smaller organizations may not have access to, or the resources to
compensate, directors meeting these additional requirements. Some commenters also
stated that terms such as “closely monitor” and “actively oversee” could be read to
impose a higher standard on directors for their oversight of incentive compensation
issues. On the other hand, one commenter noted that current law requires financial
expertise on the boards of directors and audit committees of public companies and
recommended that specialized risk-management competencies be required on the boards
of all banking organizations.



13
     Savings associations should also refer to OTS’s rule on directors, officers, and employees. 12 CFR 563.33


                                                     15
         To address concerns raised by these commenters, the final guidance clarifies that
risk-management and compensation expertise and experience at the board level may be
present collectively among the members of the board, and may come from formal
training or from experience in addressing risk-management and compensation issues,
including as a director, or may be obtained from advice received from outside counsel,
consultants, or other experts with expertise in incentive compensation and risk-
management. Furthermore, the final guidance recognizes that smaller organizations with
less complex and extensive incentive compensation arrangements may not find it
necessary or appropriate to require specially tailored board expertise or to retain and use
outside experts in this area.
        A banking organization’s disclosure practices should support safe and sound
incentive compensation arrangements. Specifically, a banking organization should
supply an appropriate amount of information concerning its incentive compensation
arrangements and related risk-management, control, and governance processes to
shareholders to allow them to monitor and, where appropriate, take actions to restrain the
potential for such arrangements to encourage employees to take imprudent risks.
        While some commenters supported increased public disclosure of the incentive
compensation practices of banking organizations, a greater number expressed concerns
that any required disclosures of incentive compensation information by banking
organizations be tailored to protect the privacy of employees and take account of the
impact of such disclosures on the ability of organizations to attract and retain talent.
Several commenters supported an alignment of required disclosures with existing
requirements for public companies, arguing that additional requirements would add to the
regulatory burden on banking organizations.
       The proposed guidance did not impose specific disclosure requirements on
banking organizations. The final guidance makes no significant changes from the
proposed guidance with regard to disclosures, and states that the scope and level of
information disclosed by a banking organization should be tailored to the nature and
complexity of the organization and its incentive compensation arrangements. The final
guidance notes that banking organizations should comply with the incentive
compensation disclosure requirements of the federal securities law and other laws, as
applicable.
        A number of commenters supported additional governance requirements for
banking organizations, such as “say on pay” provisions requiring shareholder approval of
compensation plans, separation of the board chair and chief executive officer positions,
majority voting for directors, annual elections for all directors, and improvements to the
audit function. Some of these comments seek changes in federal laws beyond the
jurisdiction of the Agencies; others address issues – such as “say on pay” requirements –
that are currently under consideration by the Congress. The final guidance does not
preempt or preclude these proposals, and indicates that the Agencies expect organizations
to comply with all applicable statutory disclosure, voting and other requirements.
E. Continuing Supervisory Initiatives
      The horizontal review of incentive compensation practices at LBOs is well
underway. While this initiative is being led by the Federal Reserve, the other federal

                                            16
banking agencies are participating in the work. Supervisory teams have collected
substantial information from LBOs concerning existing incentive compensation practices
and related risk-management and corporate governance processes. In addition, LBOs
have submitted analyses of shortcomings or “gaps” in existing practices relative to the
principles contained in the proposed guidance, as well as plans for addressing identified
weaknesses. Some organizations already have implemented changes to make their
incentive compensation arrangements more risk sensitive. Indeed, many organizations
are recognizing that strong risk-management and control systems are not sufficient to
protect the organization from undue risks, including risks arising from unbalanced
incentive compensation arrangements. Other organizations have considerably more work
to do, such as developing processes that can effectively compare incentive compensation
payments to risks and risk outcomes. The Agencies intend to continue to regularly
review incentive compensation arrangements and related risk-management, control, and
corporate governance practices of LBOs and to work with these organizations through the
supervisory process to promptly correct any deficiencies that may be inconsistent with
safety and soundness. 14
        The Agencies intend to actively monitor the actions being taken by banking
organizations with respect to incentive compensation arrangements and will review and
update this guidance as appropriate to incorporate best practices that emerge. In addition,
in order to monitor and encourage improvements, Federal Reserve staff will prepare a
report, in consultation with the other Federal banking agencies, after the conclusion of
2010 on trends and developments in compensation practices at banking organizations.
IV.      Other Matters
        In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA) of 1995 (44 U.S.C. 3506;
5 CFR Part 1320 Appendix A.1), the Agencies have determined that certain aspects of the
final guidance constitute a collection of information. The Board made this determination
under the authority delegated to the Board by the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB).
        An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and an organization is not required to
respond to, an information collection unless the information collection displays a
currently valid OMB control number. Any changes to the Agencies’ regulatory reporting
forms that may be made in the future to collect information related to incentive
compensation arrangements would be addressed in a separate Federal Register notice.
      The final guidance includes provisions that state large banking organizations
(LBOs) should (i) have policies and procedures that identify and describe the role(s) of

14
   For smaller banking organizations, the Federal Reserve is gathering consistent information through
regularly scheduled examinations and the normal supervisory process. The focus of the data gathering is to
identify the types of incentive plans in place, the job types covered and the characteristics, prevalence and
level of documentation available for those incentive compensation plans. After comparing and analyzing
the information collected, supervisory efforts and expectations will be scaled appropriately to the size and
complexity of the organization and its incentive compensation arrangements. For these smaller banking
organizations, the expectation is that there will be very limited, if any, targeted examination work or
supervisory follow-up. To the extent that any of these organizations has incentive compensation
arrangements, the policies and systems necessary to monitor these arrangements are expected to be
substantially less extensive, formalized and detailed than those of larger, more complex organizations.

                                                     17
the personnel and units authorized to be involved in incentive compensation
arrangements, identify the source of significant risk-related inputs, establish appropriate
controls governing these inputs to help ensure their integrity, and identify the
individual(s) and unit(s) whose approval is necessary for the establishment or
modification of incentive compensation arrangements; (ii) create and maintain sufficient
documentation to permit an audit of the organization’s processes for incentive
compensation arrangements; (iii) have any material exceptions or adjustments to the
incentive compensation arrangements established for senior executives approved and
documented by its board of directors; and (iv) have its board of directors receive and
review, on an annual or more frequent basis, an assessment by management of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of the organization’s incentive compensation
system in providing risk-taking incentives that are consistent with the organization’s
safety and soundness.
        The OCCand OTS have obtained, and the FDIC is seeking, emergency approval
under 5 CFR 1320.13 for issuance of the guidance and will issue a Federal Register
notice shortly for 60 days of comment as part of the regular PRA clearance process.
During the regular PRA clearance process the estimated average response time may be
re-evaluated.
        The Board has approved the collection of information under its delegated
authority. As discussed earlier in this notice, on October 27, 2009, the Board published
in the Federal Register a notice requesting comment on the proposed Guidance on Sound
Incentive Compensation Policies (74 FR 55227). The comment period for this notice
expired November 27, 2009. The Board received three comments that specifically
addressed paperwork burden. The commenters asserted that the hourly estimate of the
cost of compliance should be considerably higher than the Board projected.
        The final guidance clarifies in a number of respects the expectation that the effect
of the final guidance on banking organizations will vary depending on the size and
complexity of the organization and its level of use of incentive compensation
arrangements. For example, the final guidance makes more explicit the view that the
monitoring methods and processes used by a banking organization should be
commensurate with the size and complexity of the organization, as well as its use of
incentive compensation. In addition, the final guidance highlights the types of policies,
procedures, systems, and specific aspects of corporate governance that LBOs should have
and maintain, but that are not expected of other banking organizations.
        In response to comments and taking into account the considerations discussed
above, the Board is increasing the burden estimate for implementing or modifying
policies and procedures to monitor incentive compensation. For this purpose,
consideration of burden is limited to items in the final guidance constituting an
information collection within the meaning of the PRA. The Board estimates that 1,502
large respondents would take, on average, 480 hours (two months) to modify policies and
procedures to monitor incentive compensation. The Board estimates that 5,058 small
respondents would take, on average, 80 hours (two business weeks) to establish or
modify policies and procedures to monitor incentive compensation. The total one-time
burden is estimated to be 1,125,600 hours. In addition, the Board estimates that, on a
continuing basis, respondents would take, on average, 40 hours (one business week) each

                                             18
year to maintain policies and procedures to monitor incentive compensation arrangements
and estimates the annual on-going burden to be 262,400 hours. The total annual PRA
burden for this information collection is estimated to be 1,388,000 hours.
General description of report:
This information collection is authorized pursuant to:
Board - Sections 11(a), 11(i), 25, and 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(a),
248(i), 602, and 611,), section 5 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1844),
and section 7(c) of the International Banking Act (12 U.S.C. 3105(c)).
OCC - 12 U.S.C. 161, and Section 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1831p-1).
FDIC - Section 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831p-1)
OTS - Section 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831p-1) and Sections
4, 5, and 10 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1463, 1464, and 1467a).
        The Agencies expect to review the policies and procedures for incentive
compensation arrangements as part of their supervisory processes. To the extent the
Agencies collect information during an examination of a banking organization,
confidential treatment may be afforded to the records under exemption 8 of the Freedom
of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(8).
Board:
Title of Information Collection: Recordkeeping Provisions Associated with the Guidance
on Sound Incentive Compensation Policies.
Agency form number: FR 4027.
OMB control number: 7100 – to be assigned.
Frequency: Annually.
Affected Public: Businesses or other for-profit.
Respondents: U.S. bank holding companies, state member banks, Edge and agreement
corporations, and the U.S. operations of foreign banks with a branch, agency, or
commercial lending company subsidiary in the United States.
Estimated average hours per response: Implementing or modifying policies and
procedures: large respondents 480 hours; small respondents 80 hours. Maintenance of
policies and procedures: 40 hours.
Estimated number of respondents: Large respondents, 1,502; Small respondents, 5,058
Estimated total annual burden: 1,388,000 hours.
        As mentioned above, the OCC and OTS have obtained emergency approval under
5 CFR 1320.13. Their approval was obtained prior to the Board revising its burden
estimates based on the comments received. For this reason, the OCC and OTS are
publishing in this notice the original burden estimates. They will issue a Federal Register
notice shortly for 60 days of comment as part of the regular PRA clearance process.
During the regular PRA clearance process the estimated average response time may be

                                            19
re-evaluated based on comments received. The FDIC is seeking emergency approval
under 5 CFR 1320.13 and is publishing in this notice the revised burden estimates
developed by the Board based on the comments received. The FDIC will issue a Federal
Register notice shortly for 60 days of comment as part of the regular PRA clearance
process and, during the regular PRA clearance process, the estimated average response
time may be re-evaluated based on comments received.
OCC:
Title of Information Collection: Guidance on Sound Incentive Compensation Policies.
Agency form number: N/A.
OMB control number: 1557-0245.
Frequency: Annually.
Affected Public: Businesses or other for-profit.
Respondents: National banks.
Estimated average hours per response: 40 hours.
Estimated number of respondents: 1,650.
Estimated total annual burden: 66,000 hours.


FDIC:
Title of Information Collection: Guidance on Sound Incentive Compensation Policies.
Agency form number: N/A.
OMB control number: 3064-NEW.
Frequency: Annually.
Affected Public: Businesses or other for-profit.
Respondents: Insured state nonmember banks.
Estimated average hours per response: Implementing or modifying policies and
procedures: large respondents 480 hours; small respondents 80 hours. Maintenance of
policies and procedures: 40 hours.
Estimated number of respondents: Implementing or modifying policies and procedures:
large respondents – 20; small respondents – 4,870; Maintenance of policies and
procedures: 4,890.
Estimated total annual burden: 594,800 hours.


OTS:
Title of Information Collection: Sound Incentive Compensation Guidance.
Agency form number: N/A.


                                            20
OMB control number: 1550-0129
Frequency: Annually.
Affected Public: Businesses or other for-profit.
Respondents: Savings associations.
Estimated average hours per response: 40 hours.
Estimated number of respondents: 765
Estimated total annual burden: 30,600 hours
         The Agencies have a continuing interest in the public’s opinions of our collections
of information. At any time, comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect
of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, may be
sent to:
Board:
Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 20th and C Streets, NW.,
Washington, DC 20551.
OCC:
Communications Division, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Mailstop 2-3,
Attention: 1557-0245, 250 E Street, SW., Washington, DC 20219. In addition,
comments may be sent by fax to (202) 874-5274 or by electronic mail to
regs.comments@occ.treas.gov. You may personally inspect and photocopy comments at
the OCC, 250 E Street, SW., Washington, DC 20219. For security reasons, the OCC
requires that visitors make an appointment to inspect comments. You may do so by
calling (202) 874-4700. Upon arrival, visitors will be required to present valid
government-issued photo identification and to submit to security screening in order to
inspect and photocopy comments.
FDIC:
All comments should refer to the name of the collection, ‘‘Guidance on Sound Incentive
Compensation Policies.’’ Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
• http://www.FDIC.gov/regulations/laws/federal/propose.html.
• E-mail: comments@fdic.gov.
• Mail: Gary Kuiper (202.898.3877), Counsel, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, F-
1072, 550 17th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20429.
• Hand Delivery: Comments may be hand-delivered to the guard station at the rear of the
550 17th Street Building (located on F Street), on business days between 7 a.m. and 5
p.m.
OTS:
Information Collection Comments, Chief Counsel’s Office, Office of Thrift Supervision,
1700 G Street, NW, Washington, DC 20552; send a facsimile transmission to (202) 906–
6518; or send an e-mail to infocollection.comments@ots.treas.gov. OTS will post

                                            21
comments and the related index on the OTS Internet Site at http://www.ots.treas.gov. In
addition, interested persons may inspect comments at the Public Reading Room, 1700 G
Street, NW, Washington DC 20552 by appointment. To make an appointment, call (202)
906–5922, send an e-mail to public.info@ots.treas.gov, or send a facsimile transmission
to (202) 906–7755.
OMB:
Additionally, please send a copy of your comments by mail to: Office of Management
and Budget, 725 17th Street, NW, #10235, Paperwork Reduction Project (insert Agency
OMB control number), Washington, DC 20503. Comments can also be sent by fax to
(202) 395-6974.
       While the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 603(b)) does not apply to this
guidance, because it is not being adopted as a rule, the Agencies have considered the
potential impact of the proposed guidance on small banking organizations. For the
reasons discussed in the “Supplementary Information” above, the Agencies believe that
issuance of the proposed guidance is needed to help ensure that incentive compensation
arrangements do not pose a threat to the safety and soundness of banking organizations,
including small banking organizations. The Board in the proposed guidance sought
comment on whether the guidance would impose undue burdens on, or have unintended
consequences for, small organizations and whether there were ways such potential
burdens or consequences could be addressed in a manner consistent with safety and
soundness.
        It is estimated that the guidance will apply to 8,763 small banking organizations.
See 13 CFR 121.201. As noted in the “Supplementary Information” above, a number of
commenters expressed concern that the proposed guidance would impose undue burden
on smaller organizations. The Agencies have carefully considered the comments
received on this issue. In response to these comments, the final guidance includes several
provisions designed to reduce burden on smaller banking organizations. For example, the
final guidance has made more explicit the Agencies’ view that the monitoring methods
and processes used by a banking organization should be commensurate with the size and
complexity of the organization, as well as its use of incentive compensation. The final
guidance also highlights the types of policies, procedures, and systems that LBOs should
have and maintain, but that are not expected of other banking organizations. Like the
proposed guidance, the final guidance focuses on those employees who have the ability,
either individually or as part of a group, to expose a banking organization to material
amounts of risk and is tailored to account for the differences between large and small
banking organizations.
V.     Final Guidance
       The text of the final guidance is as follows:




                                            22
GUIDANCE ON SOUND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION POLICIES
I.       Introduction
        Incentive compensation practices in the financial industry were one of many
factors contributing to the financial crisis that began in mid-2007. Banking organizations
too often rewarded employees for increasing the organization’s revenue or short-term
profit without adequate recognition of the risks the employees’ activities posed to the
organization 1 . These practices exacerbated the risks and losses at a number of banking
organizations and resulted in the misalignment of the interests of employees with the
long-term well-being and safety and soundness of their organizations. This document
provides guidance on sound incentive compensation practices to banking organizations
supervised by the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Office of Thrift Supervision (collectively,
the “Agencies”). 2 This guidance is intended to assist banking organizations in designing
and implementing incentive compensation arrangements and related policies and
procedures that effectively consider potential risks and risk outcomes. 3
        Alignment of incentives provided to employees with the interests of shareholders
of the organization often also benefits safety and soundness. However, aligning
employee incentives with the interests of shareholders is not always sufficient to address
safety-and-soundness concerns. Because of the presence of the federal safety net,
(including the ability of insured depository institutions to raise insured deposits and
access the Federal Reserve’s discount window and payment services), shareholders of a
banking organization in some cases may be willing to tolerate a degree of risk that is
inconsistent with the organization’s safety and soundness. Accordingly, the Agencies
expect banking organizations to maintain incentive compensation practices that are
consistent with safety and soundness, even when these practices go beyond those needed
to align shareholder and employee interests.
       To be consistent with safety and soundness, incentive compensation
arrangements 4 at a banking organization should:


1
 Examples of risks that may present a threat to the organization’s safety and soundness include credit,
market, liquidity, operational, legal, compliance, and reputational risks.
2
  As used in this guidance, the term “banking organization” includes national banks, state member banks,
state nonmember banks, savings associations, U.S. bank holding companies, savings and loan holding
companies, Edge and agreement corporations, and the U.S. operations of foreign banking organizations
(FBOs) with a branch, agency, or commercial lending company in the United States.
3
  This guidance and the principles reflected herein are consistent with the Principles for Sound
Compensation Practices issued by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) in April 2009, and with the FSB’s
Implementation Standards for those principles, issued in September 2009.
4
  In this guidance, the term “incentive compensation” refers to that portion of an employee’s current or
potential compensation that is tied to achievement of one or more specific metrics (e.g., a level of sales,
revenue, or income). Incentive compensation does not include compensation that is awarded solely for,
and the payment of which is solely tied to, continued employment (e.g., salary). In addition, the term does
not include compensation arrangements that are determined based solely on the employee’s level of

                                                    23
             •   Provide employees incentives that appropriately balance risk and reward;
             •   Be compatible with effective controls and risk-management; and
             •   Be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and
                 effective oversight by the organization’s board of directors.
These principles, and the types of policies, procedures, and systems that banking
organizations should have to help ensure compliance with them, are discussed later in this
guidance.
       The Agencies expect banking organizations to regularly review their incentive
compensation arrangements for all executive and non-executive employees who, either
individually or as part of a group, have the ability to expose the organization to material
amounts of risk, as well as to regularly review the risk-management, control, and
corporate governance processes related to these arrangements. Banking organizations
should immediately address any identified deficiencies in these arrangements or
processes that are inconsistent with safety and soundness. Banking organizations are
responsible for ensuring that their incentive compensation arrangements are consistent
with the principles described in this guidance and that they do not encourage employees
to expose the organization to imprudent risks that may pose a threat to the safety and
soundness of the organization.
        The Agencies recognize that incentive compensation arrangements often seek to
serve several important and worthy objectives. For example, incentive compensation
arrangements may be used to help attract skilled staff, induce better organization-wide
and employee performance, promote employee retention, provide retirement security to
employees, or allow compensation expenses to vary with revenue on an organization-
wide basis. Moreover, the analysis and methods for ensuring that incentive compensation
arrangements take appropriate account of risk should be tailored to the size, complexity,
business strategy, and risk tolerance of each organization. The resources required will
depend upon the complexity of the firm and its use of incentive compensation
arrangements. For some, the task of designing and implementing compensation
arrangements that properly offer incentives for executive and non-executive employees to
pursue the organization’s long-term well-being and that do not encourage imprudent risk-
taking is a complex task that will require the commitment of adequate resources.
        While issues related to designing and implementing incentive compensation
arrangements are complex, the Agencies are committed to ensuring that banking
organizations move forward in incorporating the principles described in this guidance
into their incentive compensation practices. 5


compensation and does not vary based on one or more performance metrics (e.g., a 401(k) plan under
which the organization contributes a set percentage of an employee’s salary).
5
  In December 2009 the Federal Reserve, working with the other Agencies , initiated a special horizontal
review of incentive compensation arrangements and related risk-management, control, and corporate
governance practices of large banking organizations (LBOs). This initiative was designed to spur and
monitor the industry’s progress towards the implementation of safe and sound incentive compensation
arrangements, identify emerging best practices, and advance the state of practice more generally in the
industry.

                                                    24
         As discussed further below, because of the size and complexity of their
operations, LBOs 6 should have and adhere to systematic and formalized policies,
procedures, and processes. These are considered important in ensuring that incentive
compensation arrangements for all covered employees are identified and reviewed by
appropriate levels of management (including the board of directors where appropriate and
control units), and that they appropriately balance risks and rewards. In several places,
this guidance specifically highlights the types of policies, procedures, and systems that
LBOs should have and maintain, but that generally are not expected of smaller, less
complex organizations. LBOs warrant the most intensive supervisory attention because
they are significant users of incentive compensation arrangements and because flawed
approaches at these organizations are more likely to have adverse effects on the broader
financial system. The Agencies will work with LBOs as necessary through the
supervisory process to ensure that they promptly correct any deficiencies that may be
inconsistent with the safety and soundness of the organization.
        The policies, procedures, and systems of smaller banking organizations that use
incentive compensation arrangements 7 are expected to be less extensive, formalized, and
detailed than those of LBOs. Supervisory reviews of incentive compensation
arrangements at smaller, less-complex banking organizations will be conducted by the
Agencies as part of the evaluation of those organizations’ risk-management, internal
controls, and corporate governance during the regular, risk-focused examination process.
These reviews will be tailored to reflect the scope and complexity of an organization’s
activities, as well as the prevalence and scope of its incentive compensation
arrangements. Little, if any, additional examination work is expected for smaller banking
organizations that do not use, to a significant extent, incentive compensation
arrangements. 8
        For all banking organizations, supervisory findings related to incentive
compensation will be communicated to the organization and included in the relevant
report of examination or inspection. In addition, these findings will be incorporated, as
appropriate, into the organization’s rating component(s) and subcomponent(s) relating to
risk-management, internal controls, and corporate governance under the relevant
supervisory rating system, as well as the organization’s overall supervisory rating.


6
  For supervisory purposes, the Agencies segment organizations they supervise into different supervisory
portfolios based on, among other things, size, complexity, and risk profile. For purposes of the final
guidance, LBOs include, in the case of banking organizations supervised by (i) the Federal Reserve, large,
complex banking organizations as identified by the Federal Reserve for supervisory purposes; (ii) the OCC,
the largest and most complex national banks as defined in the Large Bank Supervision booklet of the
Comptroller's Handbook; (iii) the FDIC, large, complex insured depository institutions (IDIs); and (iv) the
OTS, the largest and most complex savings associations and savings and loan holding companies.
7
    This guidance does not apply to banking organizations that do not use incentive compensation.
8
  To facilitate these reviews, where appropriate, a smaller banking organization should review its
compensation arrangements to determine whether it uses incentive compensation arrangements to a
significant extent in its business operations. A smaller banking organization will not be considered a
significant user of incentive compensation arrangements simply because the organization has a firm-wide
profit-sharing or bonus plan that is based on the bank’s profitability, even if the plan covers all or most of
the organization’s employees.


                                                      25
        An organization’s appropriate federal supervisor may take enforcement action
against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk-
management, control, or governance processes pose a risk to the safety and soundness of
the organization, particularly when the organization is not taking prompt and effective
measures to correct the deficiencies. For example, the appropriate federal supervisor may
take an enforcement action if material deficiencies are found to exist in the organization’s
incentive compensation arrangements or related risk-management, control, or governance
processes, or the organization fails to promptly develop, submit, or adhere to an effective
plan designed to ensure that its incentive compensation arrangements do not encourage
imprudent risk-taking and are consistent with principles of safety and soundness. As
provided under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818), an
enforcement action may, among other things, require an organization to take affirmative
action, such as developing a corrective action plan that is acceptable to the appropriate
federal supervisor to rectify safety-and-soundness deficiencies in its incentive
compensation arrangements or related processes. Where warranted, the appropriate
federal supervisor may require the organization to take additional affirmative action to
correct or remedy deficiencies related to the organization’s incentive compensation
practices.
        Effective and balanced incentive compensation practices are likely to evolve
significantly in the coming years, spurred by the efforts of banking organizations,
supervisors, and other stakeholders. The Agencies will review and update this guidance
as appropriate to incorporate best practices that emerge from these efforts.
II.       Scope of Application
       The incentive compensation arrangements and related policies and procedures of
banking organizations should be consistent with principles of safety and soundness. 9
Incentive compensation arrangements for executive officers as well as for non-executive
personnel who have the ability to expose a banking organization to material amounts of
risk may, if not properly structured, pose a threat to the organization’s safety and
soundness. Accordingly, this guidance applies to incentive compensation arrangements
for:
      •   Senior executives and others who are responsible for oversight of the
          organization’s firm-wide activities or material business lines; 10



9
  In the case of the U.S. operations of FBOs, the organization’s policies, including management, review,
and approval requirements for its U.S. operations, should be coordinated with the FBO’s group-wide
policies developed in accordance with the rules of the FBO’s home country supervisor. The policies of the
FBO’s U.S. operations should also be consistent with the FBO’s overall corporate and management
structure, as well as its framework for risk-management and internal controls. In addition, the policies for
the U.S. operations of FBOs should be consistent with this guidance.
10
   Senior executives include, at a minimum, “executive officers” within the meaning of the Federal
Reserve’s Regulation O (see 12 CFR 215.2(e)(1)) and, for publicly traded companies, “named officers”
within the meaning of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules on disclosure of executive
compensation (see 17 CFR 229.402(a)(3)). Savings associations should also refer to OTS’s rule on loans
by saving associations to their executive officers, directors, and principal shareholders. (12 CFR 563.43).


                                                     26
     •   Individual employees, including non-executive employees, whose activities may
         expose the organization to material amounts of risk (e.g., traders with large
         position limits relative to the organization’s overall risk tolerance); and
     •   Groups of employees who are subject to the same or similar incentive
         compensation arrangements and who, in the aggregate, may expose the
         organization to material amounts of risk, even if no individual employee is likely
         to expose the organization to material risk (e.g., loan officers who, as a group,
         originate loans that account for a material amount of the organization’s credit
         risk).
        For ease of reference, these executive and non-executive employees are
collectively referred to hereafter as “covered employees” or “employees.” Depending on
the facts and circumstances of the individual organization, the types of employees or
categories of employees that are outside the scope of this guidance because they do not
have the ability to expose the organization to material risks would likely include, for
example, tellers, bookkeepers, couriers, or data processing personnel.

        In determining whether an employee, or group of employees, may expose a
banking organization to material risk, the organization should consider the full range of
inherent risks arising from, or generated by, the employee’s activities, even if the
organization uses risk-management processes or controls to limit the risks such activities
ultimately may pose to the organization. Moreover, risks should be considered to be
material for purposes of this guidance if they are material to the organization, or are
material to a business line or operating unit that is itself material to the organization. 11
For purposes of illustration, assume that a banking organization has a structured-finance
unit that is material to the organization. A group of employees within that unit who
originate structured-finance transactions that may expose the unit to material risks should
be considered “covered employees” for purposes of this guidance even if those
transactions must be approved by an independent risk function prior to consummation, or
the organization uses other processes or methods to limit the risk that such transactions
may present to the organization.

        Strong and effective risk-management and internal control functions are critical to
the safety and soundness of banking organizations. However, irrespective of the quality
of these functions, poorly designed or managed incentive compensation arrangements can
themselves be a source of risk to a banking organization. For example, incentive
compensation arrangements that provide employees strong incentives to increase the
organization’s short-term revenues or profits, without regard to the short- or long-term
risk associated with such business, can place substantial strain on the risk-management
and internal control functions of even well-managed organizations.

      Moreover, poorly balanced incentive compensation arrangements can encourage
employees to take affirmative actions to weaken or circumvent the organization’s risk-

11
   Thus, risks may be material to an organization even if they are not large enough to themselves threaten
the solvency of the organization.


                                                    27
management or internal control functions, such as by providing inaccurate or incomplete
information to these functions, to boost the employee’s personal compensation.
Accordingly, sound compensation practices are an integral part of strong risk-
management and internal control functions. A key goal of this guidance is to encourage
banking organizations to incorporate the risks related to incentive compensation into their
broader risk-management framework. Risk-management procedures and risk controls
that ordinarily limit risk-taking do not obviate the need for incentive compensation
arrangements to properly balance risk-taking incentives.

III. Principles of a Sound Incentive Compensation System
Principle 1: Balanced Risk-Taking Incentives
Incentive compensation arrangements should balance risk and financial results in a
manner that does not encourage employees to expose their organizations to
imprudent risks.
        Incentive compensation arrangements typically attempt to encourage actions that
result in greater revenue or profit for the organization. However, short-run revenue or
profit can often diverge sharply from actual long-run profit because risk outcomes may
become clear only over time. Activities that carry higher risk typically yield higher
short-term revenue, and an employee who is given incentives to increase short-term
revenue or profit, without regard to risk, will naturally be attracted to opportunities to
expose the organization to more risk.
        An incentive compensation arrangement is balanced when the amounts paid to an
employee appropriately take into account the risks (including compliance risks), as well
as the financial benefits, from the employee’s activities and the impact of those activities
on the organization’s safety and soundness. As an example, under a balanced incentive
compensation arrangement, two employees who generate the same amount of short-term
revenue or profit for an organization should not receive the same amount of incentive
compensation if the risks taken by the employees in generating that revenue or profit
differ materially. The employee whose activities create materially larger risks for the
organization should receive less than the other employee, all else being equal.
        The performance measures used in an incentive compensation arrangement have
an important effect on the incentives provided employees and, thus, the potential for the
arrangement to encourage imprudent risk-taking. For example, if an employee’s
incentive compensation payments are closely tied to short-term revenue or profit of
business generated by the employee, without any adjustments for the risks associated
with the business generated, the potential for the arrangement to encourage imprudent
risk-taking may be quite strong. Similarly, traders who work with positions that close at
year-end could have an incentive to take large risks toward the end of a year if there is no
mechanism for factoring how such positions perform over a longer period of time. The
same result could ensue if the performance measures themselves lack integrity or can be
manipulated inappropriately by the employees receiving incentive compensation.
       On the other hand, if an employee’s incentive compensation payments are
determined based on performance measures that are only distantly linked to the
employee’s activities (e.g., for most employees, organization-wide profit), the potential

                                             28
for the arrangement to encourage the employee to take imprudent risks on behalf of the
organization may be weak. For this reason, plans that provide for awards based solely on
overall organization-wide performance are unlikely to provide employees, other than
senior executives and individuals who have the ability to materially affect the
organization’s overall risk profile, with unbalanced risk-taking incentives.
         Incentive compensation arrangements should not only be balanced in design, they
also should be implemented so that actual payments vary based on risks or risk outcomes.
If, for example, employees are paid substantially all of their potential incentive
compensation even when risk or risk outcomes are materially worse than expected,
employees have less incentive to avoid activities with substantial risk.

     •   Banking organizations should consider the full range of risks associated with
         an employee’s activities, as well as the time horizon over which those risks
         may be realized, in assessing whether incentive compensation arrangements
         are balanced.
        The activities of employees may create a wide range of risks for a banking
organization, such as credit, market, liquidity, operational, legal, compliance, and
reputational risks, as well as other risks to the viability or operation of the organization.
Some of these risks may be realized in the short term, while others may become apparent
only over the long term. For example, future revenues that are booked as current income
may not materialize, and short-term profit-and-loss measures may not appropriately
reflect differences in the risks associated with the revenue derived from different
activities (e.g., the higher credit or compliance risk associated with subprime loans versus
prime loans). 12 In addition, some risks (or combinations of risky strategies and positions)
may have a low probability of being realized, but would have highly adverse effects on
the organization if they were to be realized (“bad tail risks”). While shareholders may
have less incentive to guard against bad tail risks because of the infrequency of their
realization and the existence of the federal safety net, these risks warrant special attention
for safety-and-soundness reasons given the threat they pose to the organization’s
solvency and the federal safety net.
        Banking organizations should consider the full range of current and potential risks
associated with the activities of covered employees, including the cost and amount of
capital and liquidity needed to support those risks, in developing balanced incentive
compensation arrangements. Reliable quantitative measures of risk and risk outcomes
(“quantitative measures”), where available, may be particularly useful in developing
balanced compensation arrangements and in assessing the extent to which arrangements
are properly balanced. However, reliable quantitative measures may not be available for
all types of risk or for all activities, and their utility for use in compensation arrangements
varies across business lines and employees. The absence of reliable quantitative
measures for certain types of risks or outcomes does not mean that banking organizations

12
   Importantly, the time horizon over which a risk outcome may be realized is not necessarily the same as
the stated maturity of an exposure. For example, the ongoing reinvestment of funds by a cash management
unit in commercial paper with a one-day maturity not only exposes the organization to one-day credit risk,
but also exposes the organization to liquidity risk that may be realized only infrequently.


                                                    29
should ignore such risks or outcomes for purposes of assessing whether an incentive
compensation arrangement achieves balance. For example, while reliable quantitative
measures may not exist for many bad-tail risks, it is important that such risks be
considered given their potential effect on safety and soundness. As in other risk-
management areas, banking organizations should rely on informed judgments, supported
by available data, to estimate risks and risk outcomes in the absence of reliable
quantitative risk measures.
        Large banking organizations. In designing and modifying incentive compensation
arrangements, LBOs should assess in advance of implementation whether such
arrangements are likely to provide balanced risk-taking incentives. Simulation analysis
of incentive compensation arrangements is one way of doing so. Such analysis uses
forward-looking projections of incentive compensation awards and payments based on a
range of performance levels, risk outcomes, and levels of risks taken. This type of
analysis, or other analysis that results in assessments of likely effectiveness, can help an
LBO assess whether incentive compensation awards and payments to an employee are
likely to be reduced appropriately as the risks to the organization from the employee’s
activities increase.
     •   An unbalanced arrangement can be moved toward balance by adding or
         modifying features that cause the amounts ultimately received by employees
         to appropriately reflect risk and risk outcomes.
        If an incentive compensation arrangement may encourage employees to expose
their banking organization to imprudent risks, the organization should modify the
arrangement as needed to ensure that it is consistent with safety and soundness. Four
methods are often used to make compensation more sensitive to risk. These methods are:
     o Risk Adjustment of Awards: The amount of an incentive compensation award for
       an employee is adjusted based on measures that take into account the risk the
       employee’s activities may pose to the organization. Such measures may be
       quantitative, or the size of a risk adjustment may be set judgmentally, subject to
       appropriate oversight.
     o Deferral of Payment: The actual payout of an award to an employee is delayed
       significantly beyond the end of the performance period, and the amounts paid are
       adjusted for actual losses or other aspects of performance that are realized or
       become better known only during the deferral period. 13 Deferred payouts may be
       altered according to risk outcomes either formulaically or judgmentally, subject to
       appropriate oversight. To be most effective, the deferral period should be
       sufficiently long to allow for the realization of a substantial portion of the risks
       from employee activities, and the measures of loss should be clearly explained to


13
   The deferral-of-payment method is sometimes referred to in the industry as a “clawback.” The term
“clawback” also may refer specifically to an arrangement under which an employee must return incentive
compensation payments previously received by the employee (and not just deferred) if certain risk
outcomes occur. Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7243), which applies to chief
executive officers and chief financial officers of public banking organizations, is an example of this more
specific type of “clawback” requirement.


                                                     30
         employees and closely tied to their activities during the relevant performance
         period.
     o Longer Performance Periods: The time period covered by the performance
       measures used in determining an employee’s award is extended (for example,
       from one year to two or more years). Longer performance periods and deferral of
       payment are related in that both methods allow awards or payments to be made
       after some or all risk outcomes are realized or better known.
     o Reduced Sensitivity to Short-Term Performance: The banking organization
       reduces the rate at which awards increase as an employee achieves higher levels
       of the relevant performance measure(s). Rather than offsetting risk-taking
       incentives associated with the use of short-term performance measures, this
       method reduces the magnitude of such incentives. This method also can include
       improving the quality and reliability of performance measures in taking into
       account both short-term and long-term risks, for example improving the reliability
       and accuracy of estimates of revenues and long-term profits upon which
       performance measures depend. 14
        These methods for achieving balance are not exclusive, and additional methods or
variations may exist or be developed. Moreover, each method has its own advantages
and disadvantages. For example, where reliable risk measures exist, risk adjustment of
awards may be more effective than deferral of payment in reducing incentives for
imprudent risk-taking. This is because risk adjustment potentially can take account of the
full range and time horizon of risks, rather than just those risk outcomes that occur or
become more evident during the deferral period. On the other hand, deferral of payment
may be more effective than risk adjustment in mitigating incentives to take hard-to-
measure risks (such as the risks of new activities or products, or certain risks such as
reputational or operational risk that may be difficult to measure with respect to particular
activities), especially if such risks are likely to be realized during the deferral period.
Accordingly, in some cases two or more methods may be needed in combination for an
incentive compensation arrangement to be balanced.
        The greater the potential incentives an arrangement creates for an employee to
increase the risks associated with the employee’s activities, the stronger the effect should
be of the methods applied to achieve balance. Thus, for example, risk adjustments used
to counteract a materially unbalanced compensation arrangement should have a similarly
material impact on the incentive compensation paid under the arrangement. Further,
improvements in the quality and reliability of performance measures themselves, for
example improving the reliability and accuracy of estimates of revenues and profits upon
which performance measures depend, can significantly improve the degree of balance in
risk-taking incentives.



14
   Performance targets may have a material effect on risk-taking incentives. Such targets may offer
employees greater rewards for increments of performance that are above the target or may provide that
awards will be granted only if a target is met or exceeded. Employees may be particularly motivated to
take imprudent risk in order to reach performance targets that are aggressive, but potentially achievable.


                                                     31
         Where judgment plays a significant role in the design or operation of an incentive
compensation arrangement, strong policies and procedures, internal controls, and ex post
monitoring of incentive compensation payments relative to actual risk outcomes are
particularly important to help ensure that the arrangements as implemented are balanced
and do not encourage imprudent risk-taking. For example, if a banking organization
relies to a significant degree on the judgment of one or more managers to ensure that the
incentive compensation awards to employees are appropriately risk-adjusted, the
organization should have policies and procedures that describe how managers are
expected to exercise that judgment to achieve balance and that provide for the manager(s)
to receive appropriate available information about the employee’s risk-taking activities to
make informed judgments.
        Large banking organizations. Methods and practices for making compensation
sensitive to risk are likely to evolve rapidly during the next few years, driven in part by
the efforts of supervisors and other stakeholders. LBOs should actively monitor
developments in the field and should incorporate into their incentive compensation
systems new or emerging methods or practices that are likely to improve the
organization’s long-term financial well-being and safety and soundness.
   •   The manner in which a banking organization seeks to achieve balanced
       incentive compensation arrangements should be tailored to account for the
       differences between employees—including the substantial differences
       between senior executives and other employees—as well as between banking
       organizations.
        Activities and risks may vary significantly both across banking organizations and
across employees within a particular banking organization. For example, activities, risks,
and incentive compensation practices may differ materially among banking organizations
based on, among other things, the scope or complexity of activities conducted and the
business strategies pursued by the organizations. These differences mean that methods
for achieving balanced compensation arrangements at one organization may not be
effective in restraining incentives to engage in imprudent risk-taking at another
organization. Each organization is responsible for ensuring that its incentive
compensation arrangements are consistent with the safety and soundness of the
organization.
        Moreover, the risks associated with the activities of one group of non-executive
employees (e.g., loan originators) within a banking organization may differ significantly
from those of another group of non-executive employees (e.g., spot foreign exchange
traders) within the organization. In addition, reliable quantitative measures of risk and
risk outcomes are unlikely to be available for a banking organization as a whole,
particularly a large, complex organization. This factor can make it difficult for banking
organizations to achieve balanced compensation arrangements for senior executives who
have responsibility for managing risks on an organization-wide basis solely through use
of the risk-adjustment-of-award method.
         Furthermore, the payment of deferred incentive compensation in equity (such as
restricted stock of the organization) or equity-based instruments (such as options to
acquire the organization’s stock) may be helpful in restraining the risk-taking incentives

                                             32
of senior executives and other covered employees whose activities may have a material
effect on the overall financial performance of the organization. However, equity-related
deferred compensation may not be as effective in restraining the incentives of lower-level
covered employees (particularly at large organizations) to take risks because such
employees are unlikely to believe that their actions will materially affect the
organization’s stock price.
        Banking organizations should take account of these differences when constructing
balanced compensation arrangements. For most banking organizations, the use of a
single, formulaic approach to making employee incentive compensation arrangements
appropriately risk-sensitive is likely to result in arrangements that are unbalanced at least
with respect to some employees. 15
        Large banking organizations. Incentive compensation arrangements for senior
executives at LBOs are likely to be better balanced if they involve deferral of a
substantial portion of the executives’ incentive compensation over a multi-year period in
a way that reduces the amount received in the event of poor performance, substantial use
of multi-year performance periods, or both. Similarly, the compensation arrangements
for senior executives at LBOs are likely to be better balanced if a significant portion of
the incentive compensation of these executives is paid in the form of equity-based
instruments that vest over multiple years, with the number of instruments ultimately
received dependent on the performance of the organization during the deferral period.
        The portion of the incentive compensation of other covered employees that is
deferred or paid in the form of equity-based instruments should appropriately take into
account the level, nature, and duration of the risks that the employees’ activities create for
the organization and the extent to which those activities may materially affect the overall
performance of the organization and its stock price. Deferral of a substantial portion of
an employee’s incentive compensation may not be workable for employees at lower pay
scales because of their more limited financial resources. This may require increased
reliance on other measures in the incentive compensation arrangements for these
employees to achieve balance.
     •   Banking organizations should carefully consider the potential for “golden
         parachutes” and the vesting arrangements for deferred compensation to
         affect the risk-taking behavior of employees while at the organizations.
        Arrangements that provide for an employee (typically a senior executive), upon
departure from the organization or a change in control of the organization, to receive
large additional payments or the accelerated payment of deferred amounts without regard
to risk or risk outcomes can provide the employee significant incentives to expose the
organization to undue risk. For example, an arrangement that provides an employee with
a guaranteed payout upon departure from an organization, regardless of performance,



15
   For example, spreading payouts of incentive compensation awards over a standard three-year period
may not appropriately reflect the differences in the type and time horizon of risk associated with the
activities of different groups of employees, and may not be sufficient by itself to balance the compensation
arrangements of employees who may expose the organization to substantial longer-term risks.


                                                     33
may neutralize the effect of any balancing features included in the arrangement to help
prevent imprudent risk-taking.
        Banking organizations should carefully review any such existing or proposed
arrangements (sometimes called “golden parachutes”) and the potential impact of such
arrangements on the organization’s safety and soundness. In appropriate circumstances
an organization should consider including balancing features – such as risk adjustment or
deferral requirements that extend past the employee’s departure – in the arrangements to
mitigate the potential for the arrangements to encourage imprudent risk-taking. In all
cases, a banking organization should ensure that the structure and terms of any golden
parachute arrangement entered into by the organization do not encourage imprudent risk-
taking in light of the other features of the employee’s incentive compensation
arrangements.
        Large banking organizations. Provisions that require a departing employee to
forfeit deferred incentive compensation payments may weaken the effectiveness of the
deferral arrangement if the departing employee is able to negotiate a “golden handshake”
arrangement with the new employer. 16 This weakening effect can be particularly
significant for senior executives or other skilled employees at LBOs whose services are
in high demand within the market.
         Golden handshake arrangements present special issues for LBOs and supervisors.
For example, while a banking organization could adjust its deferral arrangements so that
departing employees will continue to receive any accrued deferred compensation after
departure (subject to any clawback or malus 17 ), these changes could reduce the
employee’s incentive to remain at the organization and, thus, weaken an organization’s
ability to retain qualified talent, which is an important goal of compensation, and create
conflicts of interest. Moreover, actions of the hiring organization (which may or may not
be a supervised banking organization) ultimately may defeat these or other risk-balancing
aspects of a banking organization’s deferral arrangements. LBOs should monitor
whether golden handshake arrangements are materially weakening the organization’s
efforts to constrain the risk-taking incentives of employees. The Agencies will continue
to work with banking organizations and others to develop appropriate methods for
addressing any effect that such arrangements may have on the safety and soundness of
banking organizations.




16
   Golden handshakes are arrangements that compensate an employee for some or all of the estimated, non-
adjusted value of deferred incentive compensation that would have been forfeited upon departure from the
employee’s previous employment.
17
   A malus arrangement permits the employer to prevent vesting of all or part of the amount of a deferred
remuneration award. Malus provisions are invoked when risk outcomes are worse than expected or when
the information upon which the award was based turns out to have been incorrect. Loss of unvested
compensation due to the employee voluntarily leaving the firm is not an example of malus as the term is
used in this guidance.

                                                    34
   •   Banking organizations should effectively communicate to employees the ways
       in which incentive compensation awards and payments will be reduced as
       risks increase.
        In order for the risk-sensitive provisions of incentive compensation arrangements
to affect employee risk-taking behavior, the organization’s employees need to understand
that the amount of incentive compensation that they may receive will vary based on the
risk associated with their activities. Accordingly, banking organizations should ensure
that employees covered by an incentive compensation arrangement are informed about
the key ways in which risks are taken into account in determining the amount of incentive
compensation paid. Where feasible, an organization’s communications with employees
should include examples of how incentive compensation payments may be adjusted to
reflect projected or actual risk outcomes. An organization’s communications should be
tailored appropriately to reflect the sophistication of the relevant audience(s).
Principle 2: Compatibility with Effective Controls and Risk-management
A banking organization’s risk-management processes and internal controls should
reinforce and support the development and maintenance of balanced incentive
compensation arrangements.
       In order to increase their own compensation, employees may seek to evade the
processes established by a banking organization to achieve balanced compensation
arrangements. Similarly, an employee covered by an incentive compensation
arrangement may seek to influence, in ways designed to increase the employee’s pay, the
risk measures or other information or judgments that are used to make the employee’s
pay sensitive to risk.
      Such actions may significantly weaken the effectiveness of an organization’s
incentive compensation arrangements in restricting imprudent risk-taking. These actions
can have a particularly damaging effect on the safety and soundness of the organization if
they result in the weakening of risk measures, information, or judgments that the
organization uses for other risk-management, internal control, or financial purposes. In
such cases, the employee’s actions may weaken not only the balance of the organization’s
incentive compensation arrangements, but also the risk-management, internal controls,
and other functions that are supposed to act as a separate check on risk-taking. For this
reason, traditional risk-management controls alone do not eliminate the need to identify
employees who may expose the organization to material risk, nor do they obviate the
need for the incentive compensation arrangements for these employees to be balanced.
Rather, a banking organization’s risk-management processes and internal controls should
reinforce and support the development and maintenance of balanced incentive
compensation arrangements.
   •   Banking organizations should have appropriate controls to ensure that their
       processes for achieving balanced compensation arrangements are followed
       and to maintain the integrity of their risk-management and other functions.
        To help prevent damage from occurring, a banking organization should have
strong controls governing its process for designing, implementing, and monitoring
incentive compensation arrangements. Banking organizations should create and maintain

                                           35
sufficient documentation to permit an audit of the effectiveness of the organization’s
processes for establishing, modifying, and monitoring incentive compensation
arrangements. Smaller banking organizations should incorporate reviews of these
processes into their overall framework for compliance monitoring (including internal
audit).
        Large banking organizations. LBOs should have and maintain policies and
procedures that (i) identify and describe the role(s) of the personnel, business units, and
control units authorized to be involved in the design, implementation, and monitoring of
incentive compensation arrangements; (ii) identify the source of significant risk-related
inputs into these processes and establish appropriate controls governing the development
and approval of these inputs to help ensure their integrity; and (iii) identify the
individual(s) and control unit(s) whose approval is necessary for the establishment of new
incentive compensation arrangements or modification of existing arrangements.
        An LBO also should conduct regular internal reviews to ensure that its processes
for achieving and maintaining balanced incentive compensation arrangements are
consistently followed. Such reviews should be conducted by audit, compliance, or other
personnel in a manner consistent with the organization’s overall framework for
compliance monitoring. An LBO’s internal audit department also should separately
conduct regular audits of the organization’s compliance with its established policies and
controls relating to incentive compensation arrangements. The results should be reported
to appropriate levels of management and, where appropriate, the organization’s board of
directors.
     •   Appropriate personnel, including risk-management personnel, should have
         input into the organization’s processes for designing incentive compensation
         arrangements and assessing their effectiveness in restraining imprudent risk-
         taking.
        Developing incentive compensation arrangements that provide balanced risk-
taking incentives and monitoring arrangements to ensure they achieve balance over time
requires an understanding of the risks (including compliance risks) and potential risk
outcomes associated with the activities of the relevant employees. Accordingly, banking
organizations should have policies and procedures that ensure that risk-management
personnel have an appropriate role in the organization’s processes for designing incentive
compensation arrangements and for assessing their effectiveness in restraining imprudent
risk-taking. 18 Ways that risk managers might assist in achieving balanced compensation
arrangements include, but are not limited to, (i) reviewing the types of risks associated
with the activities of covered employees; (ii) approving the risk measures used in risk
adjustments and performance measures, as well as measures of risk outcomes used in
deferred-payout arrangements; and (iii) analyzing risk-taking and risk outcomes relative
to incentive compensation payments.



18
   Involvement of risk-management personnel in the design and monitoring of these arrangements also
should help ensure that the organization’s risk-management functions can properly understand and address
the full range of risks facing the organization.


                                                   36
        Other functions within an organization, such as its control, human resources, or
finance functions, also play an important role in helping ensure that incentive
compensation arrangements are balanced. For example, these functions may contribute
to the design and review of performance measures used in compensation arrangements or
may supply data used as part of these measures.
   •   Compensation for employees in risk-management and control functions
       should be sufficient to attract and retain qualified personnel and should
       avoid conflicts of interest.
        The risk-management and control personnel involved in the design, oversight, and
operation of incentive compensation arrangements should have appropriate skills and
experience needed to effectively fulfill their roles. These skills and experiences should
be sufficient to equip the personnel to remain effective in the face of challenges by
covered employees seeking to increase their incentive compensation in ways that are
inconsistent with sound risk-management or internal controls. The compensation
arrangements for employees in risk-management and control functions thus should be
sufficient to attract and retain qualified personnel with experience and expertise in these
fields that is appropriate in light of the size, activities, and complexity of the
organization.
       In addition, to help preserve the independence of their perspectives, the incentive
compensation received by risk-management and control personnel staff should not be
based substantially on the financial performance of the business units that they review.
Rather, the performance measures used in the incentive compensation arrangements for
these personnel should be based primarily on the achievement of the objectives of their
functions (e.g., adherence to internal controls).
   •   Banking organizations should monitor the performance of their incentive
       compensation arrangements and should revise the arrangements as needed if
       payments do not appropriately reflect risk.
        Banking organizations should monitor incentive compensation awards and
payments, risks taken, and actual risk outcomes to determine whether incentive
compensation payments to employees are reduced to reflect adverse risk outcomes or
high levels of risk taken. Results should be reported to appropriate levels of
management, including the board of directors where warranted and consistent with
Principle 3 below. The monitoring methods and processes used by a banking
organization should be commensurate with the size and complexity of the organization,
as well as its use of incentive compensation. Thus, for example, a small, noncomplex
organization that uses incentive compensation only to a limited extent may find that it can
appropriately monitor its arrangements through normal management processes.
        A banking organization should take the results of such monitoring into account in
establishing or modifying incentive compensation arrangements and in overseeing
associated controls. If, over time, incentive compensation paid by a banking organization
does not appropriately reflect risk outcomes, the organization should review and revise its
incentive compensation arrangements and related controls to ensure that the
arrangements, as designed and implemented, are balanced and do not provide employees
incentives to take imprudent risks.

                                            37
Principle 3: Strong Corporate Governance
Banking organizations should have strong and effective corporate governance to
help ensure sound compensation practices, including active and effective oversight
by the board of directors.
        Given the key role of senior executives in managing the overall risk-taking
activities of an organization, the board of directors of a banking organization should
directly approve the incentive compensation arrangements for senior executives. 19 The
board also should approve and document any material exceptions or adjustments to the
incentive compensation arrangements established for senior executives and should
carefully consider and monitor the effects of any approved exceptions or adjustments on
the balance of the arrangement, the risk-taking incentives of the senior executive, and the
safety and soundness of the organization.
       The board of directors of an organization also is ultimately responsible for
ensuring that the organization’s incentive compensation arrangements for all covered
employees are appropriately balanced and do not jeopardize the safety and soundness of
the organization. The involvement of the board of directors in oversight of the
organization’s overall incentive compensation program should be scaled appropriately to
the scope and prevalence of the organization’s incentive compensation arrangements.
        Large banking organizations and organizations that are significant users of
incentive compensation. The board of directors of an LBO or other banking organization
that uses incentive compensation to a significant extent should actively oversee the
development and operation of the organization’s incentive compensation policies,
systems, and related control processes. The board of directors of such an organization
should review and approve the overall goals and purposes of the organization’s incentive
compensation system. In addition, the board should provide clear direction to
management to ensure that the goals and policies it establishes are carried out in a
manner that achieves balance and is consistent with safety and soundness.
        The board of directors of such an organization also should ensure that steps are
taken so that the incentive compensation system--including performance measures and
targets--is designed and operated in a manner that will achieve balance.
     •   The board of directors should monitor the performance, and regularly
         review the design and function, of incentive compensation arrangements.
        To allow for informed reviews, the board should receive data and analysis from
management or other sources that are sufficient to allow the board to assess whether the
overall design and performance of the organization’s incentive compensation
arrangements are consistent with the organization’s safety and soundness. These reviews

19
   As used in this guidance, the term “board of directors” is used to refer to the members of the board of
directors who have primary responsibility for overseeing the incentive compensation system. Depending
on the manner in which the board is organized, the term may refer to the entire board of directors, a
compensation committee of the board, or another committee of the board that has primary responsibility for
overseeing the incentive compensation system. In the case of FBOs, the term refers to the relevant
oversight body for the firm’s U.S. operations, consistent with the FBO’s overall corporate and management
structure.


                                                   38
and reports should be appropriately scoped to reflect the size and complexity of the
banking organization’s activities and the prevalence and scope of its incentive
compensation arrangements.
       The board of directors of a banking organization should closely monitor incentive
compensation payments to senior executives and the sensitivity of those payments to risk
outcomes. In addition, if the compensation arrangement for a senior executive includes a
clawback provision, then the review should include sufficient information to determine if
the provision has been triggered and executed as planned.
        The board of directors of a banking organization should seek to stay abreast of
significant emerging changes in compensation plan mechanisms and incentives in the
marketplace as well as developments in academic research and regulatory advice
regarding incentive compensation policies. However, the board should recognize that
organizations, activities, and practices within the industry are not identical. Incentive
compensation arrangements at one organization may not be suitable for use at another
organization because of differences in the risks, controls, structure, and management
among organizations. The board of directors of each organization is responsible for
ensuring that the incentive compensation arrangements for its organization do not
encourage employees to take risks that are beyond the organization’s ability to manage
effectively, regardless of the practices employed by other organizations.
        Large banking organizations and organizations that are significant users of
incentive compensation. The board of an LBO or other organization that uses incentive
compensation to a significant extent should receive and review, on an annual or more
frequent basis, an assessment by management, with appropriate input from risk-
management personnel, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the
organization’s incentive compensation system in providing risk-taking incentives that are
consistent with the organization’s safety and soundness. These reports should include an
evaluation of whether or how incentive compensation practices may increase the
potential for imprudent risk-taking.
        The board of such an organization also should receive periodic reports that review
incentive compensation awards and payments relative to risk outcomes on a backward-
looking basis to determine whether the organization’s incentive compensation
arrangements may be promoting imprudent risk-taking. Boards of directors of these
organizations also should consider periodically obtaining and reviewing simulation
analysis of compensation on a forward-looking basis based on a range of performance
levels, risk outcomes, and the amount of risks taken.
   •   The organization, composition, and resources of the board of directors
       should permit effective oversight of incentive compensation.
        The board of directors of a banking organization should have, or have access to, a
level of expertise and experience in risk-management and compensation practices in the
financial services industry that is appropriate for the nature, scope, and complexity of the
organization’s activities. This level of expertise may be present collectively among the
members of the board, may come from formal training or from experience in addressing
these issues, including as a director, or may be obtained through advice received from
outside counsel, consultants, or other experts with expertise in incentive compensation

                                             39
and risk-management. The board of directors of an organization with less complex and
extensive incentive compensation arrangements may not find it necessary or appropriate
to require special board expertise or to retain and use outside experts in this area.
        In selecting and using outside parties, the board of directors should give due
attention to potential conflicts of interest arising from other dealings of the parties with
the organization or for other reasons. The board also should exercise caution to avoid
allowing outside parties to obtain undue levels of influence. While the retention and use
of outside parties may be helpful, the board retains ultimate responsibility for ensuring
that the organization’s incentive compensation arrangements are consistent with safety
and soundness.
        Large banking organizations and organizations that are significant users of
incentive compensation. If a separate compensation committee is not already in place or
required by other authorities, 20 the board of directors of an LBO or other banking
organization that uses incentive compensation to a significant extent should consider
establishing such a committee--reporting to the full board--that has primary responsibility
for overseeing the organization’s incentive compensation systems. A compensation
committee should be composed solely or predominantly of non-executive directors. If
the board does not have such a compensation committee, the board should take other
steps to ensure that non-executive directors of the board are actively involved in the
oversight of incentive compensation systems. The compensation committee should work
closely with any board-level risk and audit committees where the substance of their
actions overlap.
     •   A banking organization’s disclosure practices should support safe and sound
         incentive compensation arrangements.
        If a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements provide
employees incentives to take risks that are beyond the tolerance of the organization’s
shareholders, these risks are likely to also present a risk to the safety and soundness of the
organization. 21 To help promote safety and soundness, a banking organization should
provide an appropriate amount of information concerning its incentive compensation
arrangements for executive and non-executive employees and related risk-management,
control, and governance processes to shareholders to allow them to monitor and, where
appropriate, take actions to restrain the potential for such arrangements and processes to
encourage employees to take imprudent risks. Such disclosures should include
information relevant to employees other than senior executives. The scope and level of
the information disclosed by the organization should be tailored to the nature and
complexity of the organization and its incentive compensation arrangements. 22

20
  See, New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual Section 303A.05(a); Nasdaq Listing Rule
5605(d); Internal Revenue Code section 162(m) (26 U.S.C. 162(m)).
21
   On the other hand, as noted previously, compensation arrangements that are in the interests of the
shareholders of a banking organization are not necessarily consistent with safety and soundness.
22
   A banking organization also should comply with the incentive compensation disclosure requirements of
the federal securities law and other laws as applicable. See, e.g., Proxy Disclosure Enhancements, SEC
Release Nos. 33-9089, 34-61175, 74 F.R 68334 (Dec. 23, 2009) (to be codified at 17 CFR pts. 229 and
249).

                                                     40
       •   Large banking organizations should follow a systematic approach to
           developing a compensation system that has balanced incentive compensation
           arrangements.
        At banking organizations with large numbers of risk-taking employees engaged in
diverse activities, an ad hoc approach to developing balanced arrangements is unlikely to
be reliable. Thus, an LBO should use a systematic approach--supported by robust and
formalized policies, procedures, and systems--to ensure that those arrangements are
appropriately balanced and consistent with safety and soundness. Such an approach
should provide for the organization effectively to:
              o Identify employees who are eligible to receive incentive compensation and
                whose activities may expose the organization to material risks. These
                employees should include (i) senior executives and others who are
                responsible for oversight of the organization’s firm-wide activities or
                material business lines; (ii) individual employees, including non-executive
                employees, whose activities may expose the organization to material
                amounts of risk; and (iii) groups of employees who are subject to the same
                or similar incentive compensation arrangements and who, in the
                aggregate, may expose the organization to material amounts of risk;
              o Identify the types and time horizons of risks to the organization from the
                activities of these employees;
              o Assess the potential for the performance measures included in the
                incentive compensation arrangements for these employees to encourage
                the employees to take imprudent risks;
              o Include balancing elements, such as risk adjustments or deferral periods,
                within the incentive compensation arrangements for these employees that
                are reasonably designed to ensure that the arrangement will be balanced in
                light of the size, type, and time horizon of the inherent risks of the
                employees’ activities;
              o Communicate to the employees the ways in which their incentive
                compensation awards or payments will be adjusted to reflect the risks of
                their activities to the organization; and
              o Monitor incentive compensation awards, payments, risks taken, and risk
                outcomes for these employees and modify the relevant arrangements if
                payments made are not appropriately sensitive to risk and risk outcomes.
III.       Conclusion
       Banking organizations are responsible for ensuring that their incentive
compensation arrangements do not encourage imprudent risk-taking behavior and are
consistent with the safety and soundness of the organization. The Agencies expect
banking organizations to take prompt action to address deficiencies in their incentive
compensation arrangements or related risk-management, control, and governance
processes.



                                              41
        The Agencies intend to actively monitor the actions taken by banking
organizations in this area and will promote further advances in designing and
implementing balanced incentive compensation arrangements. Where appropriate, the
Agencies will take supervisory or enforcement action to ensure that material deficiencies
that pose a threat to the safety and soundness of the organization are promptly addressed.
The Agencies also will update this guidance as appropriate to incorporate best practices
as they develop over time.


This concludes the text of the Guidance on Sound Incentive Compensation Policies.




                                            42
[THIS SIGNATURE PAGE PERTAINS TO THE FINAL GUIDANCE ENTITLED

“GUIDANCE ON SOUND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION POLICIES.”]



Dated: June 17, 2010




John C. Dugan (signed)
John C. Dugan,
Comptroller of the Currency




                              43
[THIS SIGNATURE PAGE PERTAINS TO THE FINAL GUIDANCE ENTITLED

“GUIDANCE ON SOUND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION POLICIES.”]


By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, June 21, 2010.




Robert deV. Frierson (signed)
Robert deV. Frierson
Deputy Secretary of the Board




                                        44
[THIS SIGNATURE PAGE PERTAINS TO THE FINAL GUIDANCE ENTITLED

“GUIDANCE ON SOUND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION POLICIES.”]



Dated: June 21, 2010



Valerie J. Best (signed)

Valerie J. Best
Assistant Executive Secretary
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation




                                        45
[THIS SIGNATURE PAGE PERTAINS TO THE FINAL GUIDANCE ENTITLED

“GUIDANCE ON SOUND INCENTIVE COMPENSATION POLICIES.”]



Dated: June 10, 2010

By the Office of Thrift Supervision.




John E. Bowman (signed)
John E. Bowman,
Acting Director




                                       46
