DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

Office of the Comptroller of the Currency

12 CFR Part 30

[Docket ID OCC–2025-0339]

RIN 1557-AF40

Rescission of OCC Guidelines Establishing Standards for Recovery Planning by

Certain Large Insured National Banks, Insured Federal Savings Associations, and

Insured Federal Branches

AGENCY: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), Treasury.

ACTION: Final rule.

SUMMARY: The OCC is amending its regulations by rescinding “OCC Guidelines

Establishing Standards for Recovery Planning by Certain Large Insured National Banks,

Insured Federal Savings Associations, and Insured Federal Branches.”

DATES: This rule is effective [INSERT DATE 30 DAYS AFTER DATE OF

PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER].

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sean Young, Chief Counsel’s Office,

(202) 649-5490; Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 400 7th Street, SW,

Washington, DC 20219. If you are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability,

please dial 7-1-1 to access telecommunications relay services.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
I. Introduction

       As a part of the OCC’s ongoing assessment of its supervisory framework to

identify and eliminate unnecessary regulatory burden, the agency is amending 12 CFR

part 30 by rescinding the OCC Guidelines Establishing Standards for Recovery Planning

by Certain Large Insured National Banks, Insured Federal Savings Associations, and

Insured Federal Branches contained in appendix E.
II. Background

        In September 2016, the OCC issued the OCC Guidelines Establishing Standards

for Recovery Planning by Certain Large Insured National Banks, Insured Federal Savings

Associations, and Insured Federal Branches (Guidelines). 1 Under the Guidelines, an

insured national bank, insured Federal savings association, or insured Federal branch

subject to the standards (covered banks) should have a recovery plan that includes (1)

quantitative or qualitative indicators of the risk or existence of severe stress that reflect its

particular vulnerabilities; (2) a wide range of credible options that it could undertake in

response to the stress to restore its financial strength and viability; and (3) an assessment

and description of how these options would affect it. The Guidelines provide that a

recovery plan should also address (1) the covered bank’s overall organizational and legal

entity structure and its interconnections and interdependencies; (2) procedures for

escalating decision making to senior management or the board of directors or an

appropriate committee thereof (board); (3) management reports; (4) communication

procedures; and (5) any other information the OCC communicates in writing. The

Guidelines also set forth the responsibilities of management and the board with respect to

the covered bank’s recovery plan.

        The 2016 Guidelines applied to banks with total consolidated assets of $50 billion

or more. In 2018, the OCC amended the Guidelines to raise the threshold to $250 billion

based on its view, at that time, that these larger, more complex, and potentially more

interconnected banks presented greater systemic risk to the financial system and would

benefit most from recovery planning. 2

        In October 2024, the OCC amended the Guidelines to apply to banks with average

total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more; incorporate a testing standard; and


1
  81 FR 66791 (Sept. 29, 2016). The Guidelines are codified at 12 CFR part 30, appendix E. They were
issued pursuant to section 39 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1831p-1, which authorizes
the OCC to prescribe enforceable safety and soundness standards.
2
  See 83 FR 66604 (Dec. 27, 2018).
clarify the role of non-financial (including operational and strategic) risk in recovery

planning. 3

           In November 2025, the OCC, as a part of the agency’s ongoing assessment of its

supervisory framework to identify and eliminate unnecessary regulatory burden,

proposed to amend 12 CFR part 30 by rescinding the Guidelines contained in appendix

E. 4

III. Summary of Comments on the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking

           The OCC received eight comments on the proposal, representing a range of

viewpoints, including two trade associations, a state government official, a consumer

advocacy group, and several individuals. Some commenters expressed support for the

proposed recission of the Guidelines while other commenters expressed opposition to the

proposal. Two commenters expressed support for rescinding the Guidelines. One

commenter claimed that rescinding the Guidelines would reduce regulatory burden and

inefficiencies without compromising the safety and soundness of the covered banks.

Another commenter supported rescinding the Guidelines on the grounds that they are

unnecessary, lack cost-benefit justification, and rescinding them would eliminate

duplicative requirements because they overlap with other contingency planning and risk

management practices.

           Risk Management Function. Several commenters stated that the Guidelines should

be maintained because they serve an important risk management function. Two

commenters claimed that institutions should be planning for as many scenarios as

possible and that planning and preparation are appropriate steps to address stress events.

Another commenter stated that removing the Guidelines would eliminate an important

risk assessment process, and the resulting written recovery plans serve as valuable



3
    See 89 FR 84255 (Oct. 22, 2024).
4
    See 90 FR 51587 (Nov. 18, 2025).
references and resources for banks during periods of financial and non-financial stress.

The same commenter further stated that without recovery plans, an institution may panic

during periods of stress resulting in poor decision making that could destroy value rapidly

and undermine confidence in banks and the banking system. Another commenter stated

that recovery planning is a preparedness exercise that improves an institution’s reaction

to unexpected situations, that an institution will be better prepared to react having gone

through the recovery planning process, and that recovery planning ensures that each

group within an organization understands its role and the available options during stress

events.

           The OCC agrees with commenters that institutions should proactively engage in

risk management to develop the skills and strategies necessary to navigate periods of

operational and market stress. However, as discussed in the proposal, the OCC has

determined that the Guidelines do not materially improve risk management at covered

banks because much of the recovery planning documentation is, by its nature, scenario-

dependent or otherwise conjectural and, therefore, is likely to be irrelevant or of limited

utility when a covered bank faces stress. 5 The OCC further believes that proper risk

management should be a dynamic process that involves real-time responses to the facts

and circumstances of a stress event or periods of stress. 6 When periods of stress arise, the

OCC believes that bank management is best positioned to assess the risks unique to their

institution and should have the freedom to pursue the risk management strategy that best

suits their bank’s business model, complexities, and risks under the facts and

circumstances. The recission of the Guidelines restores bank management’s ability to

determine the optimal risk management strategy, without limiting appropriate supervisory

oversight.



5
    Id. at 51588.
6
    Id.
           Lack of Data in Support of Proposal. Two commenters asserted that the data

analysis in support of the proposal was insufficient. One commenter stated that the

proposal lacks evidence of the proposal’s effect on supervisory outcomes or how

recission of the Guidelines interacts with and does not degrade other frameworks (e.g.,

resolution planning, long-term debt and total loss-absorbing capacity, and liquidity and

contingency funding planning). Another commenter stated that the agency offered no

evidence for certain statements in the proposal. Specifically, the commenter stated that

the agency did not provide any evidence for the statement that recovery planning

documentation is “scenario dependent or otherwise conjectural and, therefore, is likely to

be irrelevant or of limited utility when a covered bank faces stress” and “that covered

banks are well attuned to indicia of stress without regard to the presence of the recovery

planning triggers and escalation procedure expectation of the Guidelines.”

           Consistent with the earlier iterations of the Guidelines and other rulemakings, the

OCC relies on its supervisory observations and expert judgments to establish and revise

supervisory policy. Since the Guidelines were last amended in 2024, the OCC has

undertaken a new initiative to review and refresh its supervisory approach to restore

balance, reset the agency’s tolerance for risk, focus supervision on material financial

risks, and free banks to lend, invest, innovate, and grow responsibly. As stated in the

proposal, the OCC has observed through this process that the significant expenditure of

resources incurred by covered banks to establish and maintain recovery planning

documentation is not justified because the documentation the agency has reviewed as part

of its supervisory activities is, by its nature, scenario-dependent or otherwise conjectural

and, therefore, is likely to be irrelevant or of limited utility when a covered bank faces

stress. 7 The OCC, consistent with other agency proposed supervisory reforms, 8 has also



7
    90 FR 51588.
8
    See, e.g., 90 FR 48835 (Oct. 30, 2025) (Unsafe or Unsound Practices, Matters Requiring Attention).
observed that this expenditure of resources on the development of recovery planning

documentation forces covered banks to prioritize policies, process, documentation, and

other non-financial risks over material financial risks that pose a threat to an institution’s

financial condition. The agency believes that relief from the Guidelines will allow bank

management at the covered banks to dedicate more resources to addressing those material

financial risks that pose a threat to their institution’s financial condition. Further, the OCC

has also determined that banks do not need a prescriptive framework for coordinating

their risk management functions. As the agency observed over a decade ago, banks

already engage in the type of risk management activities necessary to respond to

operational and market stress events. 9 The OCC continues to expect covered banks to

engage in prudent risk management, including preparing for operational and market

stresses. The recission of the Guidelines merely restores bank management’s ability to

determine what risk management strategies are most appropriate for their bank’s

respective business models, management structures, complexities, and risks.

        Prior Stress Events Support Maintaining the Guidelines. Several commenters

claimed that the market stress and bank failures of 2023 demonstrate that the agency

should not rescind the Guidelines and either maintain or strengthen them. 10

        In the OCC’s experience, recovery plans required under the Guidelines have not

been useful risk management tools for banks. Likewise, for the reasons described in the

proposal, the OCC does not expect the Guidelines to yield useful recovery plans in the

future because much of the recovery planning documentation is, by its nature, scenario-

dependent or otherwise conjectural and, therefore, is likely to be irrelevant or of limited

utility when a covered bank faces stress. 11 Moreover, following the bank failures of 2023,



9
  See 81 FR 66797.
10
   The commenters did not specify which bank failures they were referring to, but for purposes of
discussion, the agency assumes the commenters were referring to the failures of Silicon Valley Bank on
March 10, 2023, Signature Bank on March 10, 2023, and First Republic Bank on May 1, 2023.
11
   90 FR 51588.
the agency did not rely upon any observations that recovery planning documentation was

utilized at covered banks during this period of market stress, nor did the OCC determine

that prescriptive recovery planning guidelines would have been effective at addressing

stress at the covered banks as justification for reducing the Guidelines’ threshold. 12

         After carefully reviewing and considering all of the comments received, the OCC

is adopting the final rule as proposed. Although some commenters disagreed with the

proposal, the OCC believes recission of the Guidelines is necessary to achieve the

agency’s goal of identifying and eliminating unnecessary regulatory burden that has been

imposed on banks. Further, the agency believes that the Guidelines can be eliminated

without creating additional risk to the safety and soundness of the covered banks or the

banking system.

IV. Contingency Funding Planning

         As a part of the proposal, the OCC also invited public comment on whether the

contingency funding plan expectations set forth in the Interagency Policy Statement on

Funding and Liquidity Risk Management and the Addendum to the Interagency Policy

Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management: Importance of Contingency

Funding Plans (collectively, the Contingency Funding Guidelines) should be codified. 13

One commenter expressed support for codification of the Contingency Funding

Guidelines on the grounds that contingency funding plans consider a range of stress

scenarios, ensure that an institution can continue to operate during periods of stress, help

maintain public trust, protect an institution’s reputation, and ensure the stability of the

financial system. Two commenters opposed codification of the Contingency Funding

Guidelines for various reasons. One commenter stated that codification of a contingency




12
   Rather, the agency relied upon the observation that institutions with more than $100 billion in assets
“generally have a level of risk, complexity, and interconnectedness at which recovery planning is most
beneficial.” See 89 FR 84256.
13
   See 90 FR 51589.
funding requirement would be inconsistent with the agency’s goal of reducing regulatory

burden. Another commenter acknowledged that having reliable contingency funding

sources was important to bank safety and soundness but still expressed opposition to

codification. The commenter observed that the OCC has ample supervisory tools at its

disposal to address concerns related to funding and liquidity risk management. The

commenter further stated that there would not be any benefit to codifying a contingency

funding requirement and codification of such a requirement could impose incremental

cost burdens on institutions.

        Upon consideration of the comments received concerning codification of the

Contingency Funding Guidelines, the OCC has declined to pursue codification at this

time. The OCC will continue to review the Contingency Funding Guidelines for

opportunities to refine and improve the agency’s supervision of contingency funding

planning activities. As discussed in the proposal, the OCC expects that all banks have a

formal contingency funding plan that considers a range of possible stress scenarios,

assesses the stability of funding during periods of stress, and provides for a broad range

of funding sources under adverse conditions. 14

V. Final Rule

        The final rule adopts as final the proposed recission of the OCC Guidelines

Establishing Standards for Recovery Planning by Certain Large Insured National Banks,

Insured Federal Savings Associations, and Insured Federal Branches contained at 12 CFR

part 30, appendix E. The OCC believes the recission of the Guidelines achieves the

OCC’s goal of identifying and eliminating unnecessary regulatory burden without



14
  Id.; see also Addendum to the Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management:
Importance of Contingency Funding Plans, OCC Bulletin 2023-25, which can be accessed here:
https://www.occ.gov/news-issuances/news-releases/2023/nr-ia-2023-82a.pdf; Interagency Policy Statement
on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management, Federal Reserve SR 10-6 (Mar. 17, 2010), FDIC FIL-13-2010
(Apr. 10, 2010), and OCC Bulletin 2010-13 (Mar. 22, 2010). These individual agency issuances released
the 2010 Interagency Policy Statement on Funding and Liquidity Risk Management, which can be accessed
here: https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2010-03-22/pdf/2010-6137.pdf.
compromising the safety and soundness of the covered banks or the banking system.

Covered banks will no longer be required to develop and maintain formal recovery

planning documentation and the OCC will no longer examine for recovery planning

documentation. Recission of the Guidelines does not restrict banks from continuing to

engage in recovery planning activities but rather provides bank management with

increased freedom to allocate resources more efficiently and pursue those risk

management activities best suited to a bank’s business model, management structure,

complexities, and risks. While the Guidelines may no longer impose unnecessary

regulatory burden on the covered banks, these institutions remain responsible for

managing the risks to their business models.

VI. Regulatory Analysis

Paperwork Reduction Act

           Under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA), 15 the OCC may not conduct

or sponsor, and a respondent is not required to respond to, an information collection

unless it displays a currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control

number. The OCC has reviewed the final rule and determined that it would not create any

new, or revise any existing, collections of information under the PRA and therefore,

requires no PRA filings, other than a discontinuance request to the OMB for the currently

approved “Guidelines Establishing Standards for Recovery Planning by Certain Large

Insured National Banks, Insured Federal Savings Associations, and Insured Federal

Branches (1557-0333)” information collection.

           Title of Information Collection: Guidelines Establishing Standards for Recovery

           Planning by Certain Large Insured National Banks, Insured Federal Savings

           Associations, and Insured Federal Branches.

           OMB Control Number: 1557-0333.


15
     44 U.S.C. 3501 et. seq.
           Affected Public: Businesses or other for-profit organizations.

           Description: Twelve CFR part 30, appendix E, current Guidelines apply to

           national banks, insured Federal savings associations, and insured Federal

           branches of foreign banks with total consolidated assets of $100 billion or more.

           The OMB previously approved the collection of information in the current

           Guidelines, which are found at paragraphs II.B., II.C., and III. Specifically,

           paragraph II.B. lists the elements of the recovery plan, which are an overview of

           the covered bank; triggers; options for recovery; impact assessments; escalation

           procedures; management reports; communication procedures; and other

           information. Paragraph II.C. addresses the relationship of the plan to other

           covered bank processes and coordination with other plans, including the processes

           and plans of its bank holding company. Paragraph III. outlines management and

           the board’s responsibilities. The current Guidelines also include a testing standard,

           which provides that a covered bank should test its recovery plan.

           Additionally, the current Guidelines clarify the role of non-financial risk

           (including operational and strategic risk) in recovery planning.

           Current Burden

           Frequency of Response: On occasion.

           Total Number of Respondents: 21.

           Total Burden per Respondent: 32,017 hours.

           Total Burden for Collection: 672,360 hours.

Regulatory Flexibility Act

           The Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) 16 requires an agency, in connection with a

final rule, to prepare a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis describing the impact of the final

rule on small entities (defined by the Small Business Administration for purposes of the


16
     5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.
RFA to include commercial banks and savings institutions with total assets of $850

million or less and trust companies with total assets of $47 million or less). Under section

605(b) of the RFA, this analysis is not required if an agency certifies that the rulemaking

would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities

and publishes its certification and a short explanatory statement in the Federal Register

along with its rule.

           The OCC certifies that the recission of Guidelines contained in appendix E of 12

CFR part 30, will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities.

The Guidelines only apply to those insured national banks, insured Federal savings

associations, or insured Federal branches with average total consolidated assets of $100

billion or more. Therefore, the recission of the Guidelines would impact no small entities

supervised by the OCC. Accordingly, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required.

Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995

           The OCC analyzed the final rule under the factors set forth in the Unfunded

Mandates Reform Act of 1995. 17 Under this analysis, the OCC considered whether the

final rule includes a Federal mandate that may result in the expenditure by State, local,

and Tribal governments, in the aggregate, or by the private sector, of $100 million or

more (currently $187 million, as adjusted annually for inflation) in any one year. The

OCC has determined that the cost savings associated with the rescission of the

Guidelines’ mandates will be approximately $20 million annually. Therefore, the OCC

concludes that the recission of the Guidelines contained in 12 CFR part 30, appendix E,

will not result in an expenditure of $187 million or more annually by State, local, and

Tribal governments, in the aggregate, or by the private sector in any one year.

Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994




17
     2 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.
           Pursuant to section 302(a) of the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory

Improvement Act of 1994, 18 in determining the effective date and administrative

compliance requirements for new regulations that impose additional reporting, disclosure,

or other requirements on insured depository institutions, the OCC must consider,

consistent with the principles of safety and soundness and the public interest: (1) any

administrative burdens that the rule would place on depository institutions, including

small depository institutions, and customers of depository institutions; and (2) the

benefits of the rulemaking. This rulemaking would not impose any additional reporting,

disclosure, or other requirements on insured depository institutions. Therefore, section

302(a) of the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994

does not apply to this rulemaking.

Executive Orders 12866 and 14192

           Executive Order 12866, titled “Regulatory Planning and Review,” as amended,

provides that the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA), will review all

“significant regulatory actions” as defined therein. OIRA has determined that this final

rule is not a “significant regulatory action” for purposes of Executive Order 12866.

Executive Order 14192, titled “Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation,” separately

requires that an agency, unless prohibited by law, identify at least ten existing regulations

to be repealed when the agency publicly proposes for notice and comment or otherwise

promulgates a new regulation with total costs greater than zero. Executive Order 14192

further requires that new incremental costs associated with new regulations shall, to the

extent permitted by law, be offset by the elimination of existing costs associated with at

least ten prior regulations. The final rule will result in approximately $20 million of

annual cost savings to covered banks and is a deregulatory action under Executive Order

14192.


18
     12 U.S.C. 4802(a).
Congressional Review Act

         Before a rule can take effect, the Congressional Review Act (CRA) 19 provides that

the OCC must submit to Congress and to the Comptroller General the rule along with a

report indicating whether it is a “major rule.” In general, if a rule is a “major rule,” the

CRA provides that unless Congress enacts a joint resolution of disapproval the rule takes

effect the later of: (1) 60 days after Congress receives the required report or publication

of the rule in the Federal Register, whichever is later; or (2) the date the rule would

otherwise take effect. 20

          The CRA defines a “major rule” as any rule that the Administrator of OIRA of

the OMB finds has resulted in or is likely to result in (1) an annual effect on the economy

of $100,000,000 or more; (2) a major increase in costs or prices for consumers, individual

industries, Federal, State, or local government agencies or geographic regions; or (3) a

significant adverse effect on competition, employment, investment, productivity,

innovation, or the ability of United States-based enterprises to compete with foreign-

based enterprises in domestic and export markets. 21

         OIRA has determined that this final rule is not a major rule. As required by the

CRA, the OCC will submit the final rule and other appropriate reports to Congress and

the Government Accountability Office for review.

List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 30

         Administrative practice and procedure, National banks, Reporting and

recordkeeping requirements.

     For the reasons stated in the preamble, and under the authority of 12 U.S.C. 93a and

12 U.S.C. 1831p-1, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency amends 12 CFR part

30 as follows:


19
   5 U.S.C. 801 et seq.
20
   5 U.S.C. 801(a)(3).
21
   5 U.S.C. 804(2).
PART 30—SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS STANDARDS

       1. The authority citation for part 30 continues to read as follows:

       Authority:12 U.S.C. 1, 93a, 371, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467a, 1818, 1828, 1831p-

1, 1881-1884, 3102(b) and 5412(b)(2)(B); 15 U.S.C. 1681s, 1681w, 6801, and

6805(b)(1).

APPENDIX E TO PART 30 [REMOVED]

       2. Removes appendix E to part 30.



Jonathan V. Gould,
Comptroller of the Currency.
